+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-01-13"
description = "U.S. Jobless Claims Unexpectedly Rise To Eight-Week High"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. Jobless Claims Unexpectedly Rise To Eight-Week High"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

First-time claims for U.S. unemployment benefits unexpectedly increased
in the week ended January 8th, according to a report released by the
Labor Department on Thursday.

The report said initial jobless claims rose to 230,000, an increase of
23,000 from the previous week's unrevised level of 207,000. Economists
had expected jobless claims to edge down to 200,000.

With the unexpected increase, jobless claims reached their highest level
since hitting 270,000 in the week ended November 13th.

"The rise in claims likely reflects an increase in layoffs due to the
surge in Covid cases, as seasonal adjustment factors last week worked in
favor of a lower headline claims figure," said Nancy Vanden Houten, Lead
Economist at Oxford Economics.

"Claims may remain elevated in the near term, but we expect initial
claims will gravitate back to the 200k level once the Omicron wave
passes," she added. "Encouragingly, there are indications that cases
from the Omicron variant are peaking."

The Labor Department said the less volatile four-week moving average
also crept up to 210,750, an increase of 6,250 from the previous week's
unrevised average of 204,500.

Meanwhile, the report said continuing claims, a reading on the number of
people receiving ongoing unemployment assistance, tumbled by 194,000 to
1.559 million in the week ended January 1st.

With the notable decrease, continuing claims dropped to their lowest
level since hitting 1.556 million in the week ended June 2, 1973.

The four-week moving average of continuing claims also fell by 77,000 to
1,721,500 from the previous week's revised average of 1,798,500, hitting
the lowest level since March of 2020.

Last Friday, the Labor Department released a separate report showing
employment in the U.S. increased by much less than expected in the month
of December.

The report said non-farm payroll employment rose by 199,000 jobs in
December after climbing by an upwardly revised 249,000 jobs in November.

Economists had expected employment to jump by 400,000 jobs compared to
the addition of 210,000 jobs originally reported for the previous month.

Despite the weaker than expected job growth, the unemployment rate slid
to 3.9 percent in December from 4.2 percent in November. The
unemployment rate was expected to edge down to 4.1 percent.

With the bigger than expected decrease, the unemployment rate fell to
its lowest level since hitting 3.5 percent in February of 2020.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][2], [unemployment rate][3], [inflation][4] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx