+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-04-19"
description = "IMF Lowers Global Growth Outlook On War Impact, High Inflation"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "IMF Lowers Global Growth Outlook On War Impact, High Inflation"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

War in Ukraine and its global spillovers have dealt a severe blow to the
global economic recovery and could result in long-term damage, the
International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday as it slashed the growth
forecasts and lifted the inflation outlook.  
  
In its latest World Economic Outlook report, the lender lowered the
global growth forecast for this year to 3.6 percent from 4.4 percent
predicted in January.  
  
The projection for next year was cut to 3.6 percent from 3.8 percent.  
  
The downgrade largely reflects the war's direct impacts on Russia and
Ukraine and global spillovers, the IMF said.  
  
Ukraine's [economy][1] is forecast to shrink about 35 percent this year
due to the war and the economy is set to suffer long-term damage in
[terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of loss of life, destruction and migration.  
  
Russia's economy is also set for a severe contraction of 8.5 percent
this year, due to the trade and financial sanctions imposed after the
invasion of Ukraine, the IMF said.  
  
"The economic effects of the war are spreading far and wide—like seismic
waves that emanate from the epicenter of an earthquake—mainly through
commodity [markets][2], trade, and financial linkages," the WEO said in
the foreword to the report.

Supply shortages due to the war are expected to last into 2023 in some
sectors, the IMF said as it raised the inflation projections for both
advanced and developing economies. The lender expects inflation to
remain elevated for longer than expected earlier.  
  
"The risk is rising that inflation expectations drift away from central
bank inflation targets, prompting a more aggressive tightening response
from [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)makers," IMF Chief Economist Pierre-Olivier Gourinchas
warned.

"Furthermore, increases in food and fuel prices may also significantly
increase the prospect of social unrest in poorer countries."

Big central banks such as the [U.S. Federal Reserve][3] and the Bank of
England have already started raising interest rates, and the European
Central Bank has signaled a move in the same direction later this year.

Interest rates are hiked even as consumer price inflation is setting new
records in major economies such as Germany as well as in smaller ones,
thanks to massive, even three-digit in some cases, increases in energy
prices.

Global inflation forecast for this year was raised by 1.8 percentage
points to 5.7 percent in advanced economies, and by 2.8 percentage
points to 8.7 percent in the emerging market and developing economies.  
  
The latest Global Financial Stability Report, released on Tuesday,
cautioned that several emerging market economies could come under
pressure if the pace of global monetary tightening accelerates further,
especially in the United States.

A more aggressive repricing in the financial markets could further hurt
the global outlook, the report added.  
  
Further, debt levels have increased significantly and the war and the
impending increase in global interest rates will further reduce fiscal
space in many countries, especially oil- and food-importing emerging
market and developing economies, the IMF said.  
  
"The war also increases the risk of a more permanent fragmentation of
the world economy into geopolitical blocks with distinct [technology][4]
standards, cross-border payment systems, and reserve currencies," the
IMF said.  
  
In the long-term, such a "tectonic shift" could cause long-run
efficiency losses, increase volatility and pose challenges to a rules-
based framework, the lender stressed.  
  
The U.S. growth forecast for this year was trimmed to 3.7 percent from
4.7 percent. The outlook for next year was lowered to 2.3 percent from
2.6 percent.  
  
The Euro area growth forecast for this year was cut by 1.1 percentage
points to 2.8 percent, mainly due to the indirect effects of the war.
The projection for next year was trimmed to 2.3 percent from 2.5
percent.  
  
The 2022 growth projections for the big four of Eurozone - Germany,
France, Italy and Spain, were cut drastically to 2.1 percent, 2.9
percent, 2.3 percent and 4.8 percent, respectively.  
  
The GDP growth forecasts for Japan and the U.K. for this year were
sharply lowered to 2.4 percent and 3.7 percent. Canada's projection was
cut to 3.9 percent from 4.1 percent.  
  
China's growth forecast for this year was slashed to 4.4 percent from
4.8 percent. The outlook for next year was trimmed to 5.1 percent from
5.2 percent.  
  
India's outlook for this year was cut to 8.2 percent from 9.0 percent.
The projection for next year was slashed to 6.9 percent from 7.1
percent. Despite the downgrade, the country had the fastest growth
projections for both years.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][5] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][5]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][6], [unemployment rate][7], [inflation][8] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Markets.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/3270118/fed-raises-interest-rates-25-basis-points-predicts-ongoing-rate-hikes.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/highest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   7. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   8. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx