+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-12"
description = "U.S. Consumer Price Growth Exceeds Estimates In July"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. Consumer Price Growth Exceeds Estimates In July"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Consumer prices in the U.S. increased by more than anticipated in the
month of July, according to a report released by the Labor Department on
Wednesday.

The Labor Department said its consumer price index climbed by 0.6
percent in July, matching the increase seen in June. Economist had
expected consumer prices to rise by 0.3 percent.

The stronger than expected consumer price growth was partly due to a
continued spike in energy prices, which surged up by 2.5 percent in July
after soaring by 5.1 percent in June. Gasoline prices continued to lead
the way higher.

However, the jump in energy prices was partly offset by a pullback in
food prices, which fell by 0.4 percent in July after rising by 0.6
percent in July. Prices for food at home tumbled by 1.1 percent.

Excluding food and energy prices, core consumer prices still advanced by
0.6 percent in July after inching up by 0.2 percent in the previous
month. Core prices were expected to edge up by another 0.2 percent.

Core consumer prices showed their biggest increase since January of
1991, partly reflecting another jump in prices for motor vehicle
insurance, which skyrocketed by 9.3 percent in July after spiking by 5.1
percent in June.

Prices for shelter, communication, used cars and trucks, and medical
care also increased in July, while prices for recreation declined.

The report also said the annual rate of consumer price growth
accelerated to 1.0 percent in July from 0.6 percent in June. Core prices
were up 1.6 percent year-over-year following a 1.2 percent increase in
the previous month.

Paul Ashworth, Chief U.S. Economist at Capital Economics, said the
increase in consumer prices "should end any speculation that the
pandemic-related slump in demand will quickly push the [economy][1] into
a deflationary spiral."

"But this is not a sign that the U.S. is instead about to experience a
bout of much high inflation because of supply restrictions," Ashworth
said. "It mainly reflects a recovery in the prices of goods and services
that were most affected during the early stages of the pandemic."

On Tuesday, the Labor Department released a separate report showing U.S.
producer prices also climbed by more than expected in the month of July.

The Labor Department said its producer price index for final demand rose
by 0.6 percent in July after dipping by 0.2 percent in June.

Excluding food and energy prices, core producer prices climbed by 0.5
percent in July after falling by 0.3 percent in June. Economists had
expected core prices to inch up by 0.1 percent.

Compared to the same month a year ago, producer prices in July were down
by 0.4 percent following a 0.8 percent decrease in June.

The annual rate of growth in core producer prices accelerated to 0.3
percent in July from 0.1 percent in the previous month.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][2]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx