+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-12"
description = "UK Economy Logs Biggest Contraction Since 1955"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "UK Economy Logs Biggest Contraction Since 1955"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The UK [economy][1] contracted at the fastest pace on record in the
second quarter amid the coronavirus pandemic, despite signs of recovery
taking hold in June after the relaxation of restrictions on movement.

Gross domestic product contracted by 20.4 percent sequentially in the
second quarter, following a 2.2 percent drop in the first quarter, the
Office for National Statistics reported Wednesday.

With the second consecutive fall, the economy has entered a technical
recession. The latest fall was the biggest contraction since the records
began in 1955. Economists had forecast a quarterly fall of 20.5 percent.

"It is clear, that the UK is in the largest recession on record," the
ONS said.

Second quarter GDP was 22.1 percent below the final three months of
2019, which is more than three times greater than the total fall during
the next largest period of recession, which occurred during the global
economic downturn of 2008 to 2009, the statistical office added.

"Today's numbers show that hard times are here," Chancellor Rishi Sunak
told BBC. He expects many more people to lose their jobs.

"Although tough decisions lie ahead, we will get through this and nobody
will be left without hope or opportunity," Sunak added.

Latest ONS estimates show that the UK economy is now 17.2 percent
smaller than it was in February, ahead of the Covid-19 outbreak.

On a yearly basis, GDP plunged 21.7 percent in the second quarter but
smaller than the economists' forecast of 22.4 percent.

As the full scale of the fallout in unemployment has yet to be felt and
as GDP may take 12-18 months to climb back to its pre-[coronavirus][2]
level, it's going to feel like a recession for a long time yet, Paul
Dales, an economist at Capital Economics, said.

The UK economy is likely to experience a decent rate of growth during
the third quarter, but importantly it will be at least a couple of years
before all of the lost ground is recovered, James Smith, an ING
economist, said.

Consumer caution, the unwinding of the Job Retention scheme and the end
of the post-Brexit transition period pose risks to the recovery, Smith
noted.

There have been record quarterly falls in services, production and
construction output in the second quarter. Services output decreased
19.9 percent and production output fell 16.9 percent. Construction
output contracted more sharply, by 35.0 percent.

Private consumption accounted for more than 70 percent of the fall in
the expenditure measure of GDP in the second quarter, falling by a
record 23.1 percent.  
  
Gross fixed capital formation declined 25.5 percent and [business][3]
investment was down 31.4 percent. Meanwhile, government consumption
advanced 14.1 percent.

The UK logged a trade surplus of 4.0 percent of GDP in the second
quarter, data showed.

In June, the monthly GDP growth accelerated to 8.7 percent from 2.4
percent in May. All sectors posted faster growth, with construction
registering the biggest increase of 23.5 percent.

The dominant service sector grew 7.7 percent in June. At the same time,
production advanced 9.3 percent and manufacturing gained 11 percent.
Farm output climbed 2.7 percent.

The economy began to bounce back in June with shops reopening, factories
beginning to ramp up production and housebuilding continuing to recover,
ONS Deputy National Statistical for Economic Statistics Jonathan Athow
said.  
  
Despite this, GDP in June still remains a sixth below its level in
February, before the virus struck, Athow added.  
  
In June, the visible trade deficit widened as the increase in imports
far exceeded the rise in shipments. The visible trade gap rose to GBP
5.12 billion from GBP 1.76 billion in May, the ONS said in a separate
release.

Exports and imports of goods climbed 6.9 percent and 18.8 percent,
respectively.

Consequently, the total trade surplus declined to GBP 5.34 billion from
GBP 7.66 billion a month ago.

Another report from the ONS showed that labor productivity posted its
biggest fall on records in the second quarter. Labor productivity
decreased 2.5 percent on quarter.

Reflecting the impact of the furlough scheme, output per worker plunged
19.9 percent from the first quarter.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][4] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][4]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][5], [unemployment rate][6], [inflation][7] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   7. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx