+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-28"
description = "Eurozone Economic Confidence Strongest Since Early 2018"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone Economic Confidence Strongest Since Early 2018"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Eurozone economic confidence improved to the strongest level in more
than three years in May driven by the easing of Covid related
restrictions, survey results from the European Commission showed on
Friday.

The economic confidence index rose to 114.5 in May from 110.5 in the
previous month. This was the highest score since January 2018, when the
reading was 114.7.

Industry confidence increased for the sixth month in a row to reach a
new all-time high of 11.5 in May. The improvement was largely
underpinned by very positive developments in managers' assessments of
the current level of overall order books.  
  
At 8.8, the services confidence index registered the third significant
growth in a row and exceeded its long-term average for the first time
since March last year. Managers expressed more positive views on the
past [business][1] situation and past demand, and were more optimistic
on demand expectations.

The consumer sentiment index improved to -5.1 in May, as initially
estimated, from -8.1, driven by an improvement in all its components,
namely views on their household's past and future financial situation,
their expectations of the general economic situation in their country,
and their intentions to make major purchases.

Retail trade confidence rose for the third time in a row, to +0.4 in
May, reflecting managers' improved assessments of the past and expected
business situation, while their assessment of the adequacy of the volume
of stocks slightly worsened.

The construction confidence index advanced to 4.9 from 3.0 a month ago,
as managers posted better appraisals of the level of order books and
more optimistic employment expectations.

The business confidence rose moderately to 1.50 in May from 1.12 in
April.

The employment expectations indicator climbed 2.9 points to 110.1 in
May, bringing it further above its long-term average.

Selling price expectations increased markedly for the third month in May
with all surveyed sectors reporting gains.

Although the survey also showed that input shortages are causing price
pressures to intensify, once these shortages ease, inflation will drop
back sharply, Jack Allen-Reynolds, an economist at Capital Economics,
said.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx