+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-04"
description = "Australia Retail Sales Fall 1.1% On Month In September"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Australia Retail Sales Fall 1.1% On Month In September"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The total value of retail sales in Australia dropped a seasonally
adjusted 1.1 percent on month in September, the Australian Bureau of
Statistics said on Wednesday - standing at A$29.157 billion.

That beat forecasts for a decline of 1.5 percent following the 4.0
percent drop in August.

Falls in September month led by household goods retailing (-3.6 percent)
and food retailing (-1.5 percent), however both industries continue to
trade at elevated levels compared to September 2019.

Other retailing (-0.7 percent), and clothing, footwear and personal
accessory retailing (-1.1 percent) also fell in September.

There were rises in cafes, restaurants and takeaway food services (3.5
percent), and department stores (1.0 percent).

There were falls in New South Wales (-0.9 percent), Queensland (-1.2
percent), Western Australia (-1.7 percent), South Australia (-2.9
percent), Victoria (-0.4 percent), the Australian Capital Territory
(-2.4 percent), and Tasmania (-2.0 percent). The Northern Territory was
up 4.3 percent.

Online sales remain elevated, making up 10.6 percent of total retail
sales in September 2020. Online contributed 6.6 percent in September
2019.

For the third quarter of 2020, retail sales was up 6.5 percent at
A$84.808 billion.

Cafes, restaurants and takeaway food services (28.1 percent), and
clothing, footwear and personal accessory retailing (35.5 percent) led
the rises.

Quarterly volume growth was partially offset by Victoria, which fell 4.2
percent. New South Wales (11.6 percent) led the rises by state and
territory.

Also on Wednesday:  
• The Australian Industry Group said that the construction sector in
Australia moved into expansion territory in October, with a seasonally
adjusted Performance of Construction score of 52.7.

That's up from 45.2 and it moves above the boom-or-bust line of 50 that
separates expansion from contraction. It's also the first expansionary
result since August 2018.

All of this recovery in October was in housing construction, with house
building activity and new orders up strongly. The activity and new
orders indices in the apartments and engineering sectors improved in
October but remained stable or in contraction. Activity in commercial
construction deteriorated but new orders improved, which suggests better
months ahead.

• IHS Market said that the services sector in Australia continued to
expand in October, and at a faster pace, with a seasonally adjusted
services PMI score of 53.7. That's up from 50.8 in September and it
moves further above the boom-or-bust line of 50 that separates expansion
from contraction.

Individually, new [business][1] rose again, albeit marginally, while
employment shrunk at a slower rate. Business sentiment was at its
strongest in more than two years.

With sales growth still subdued, firms were able to work through
previously-placed orders, resulting in a third straight monthly decline
in backlogs of work, though the latest depletion was the weakest in this
sequence.

The survey also showed that the composite index came in at 53.5, up from
51.1 in the previous month.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/retail-sales/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx