+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-04"
description = "China's Service Sector Logs Robust Growth In October"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "China's Service Sector Logs Robust Growth In October"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

China's service sector expanded strongly in October signaling a
sustained recovery from the Covid-19 related drops in activity seen
earlier in the year, survey results published by IHS Markit showed
Wednesday.

The Caixin services Purchasing Managers' Index advanced to 56.8 in
October from 54.8 in the previous month. A score above 50 indicates
expansion in the sector.

The sector posted its second fastest growth for over a decade, driven by
a substantial rise in new work. However, new work from overseas
[markets][1] declined further due to the resurgence of Covid-19 cases
across a number of export markets.

Increased amounts of new work and signs of firmer market conditions led
companies to add to their payroll numbers for the third straight month
in October.

Due to higher staff numbers and purchasing costs, operating expenses
increased at the steepest rate for just over two years. However, efforts
to remain competitive led firms to raise their output prices only
slightly.

There was a marked improvement in [business][2] confidence in October.
The degree of optimism was the strongest since April 2012.

The survey showed that the composite output index that combines the
performance of manufacturing and services, rose to 55.7 from 54.5 in
September, signaling a sharp and accelerated rise in overall business
activity across China.

Overall, as the domestic epidemic situation stabilizes, recovery
remained the main economic theme, Wang Zhe, senior economist at Caixin
Insight Group said.

In the coming months, a continued recovery of the Chinese [economy][3]
is highly likely, but it is necessary to be cautious about the
normalization of monetary and fiscal policies in the post-epidemic
period, the economist said.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][3]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][4] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][4]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][5], [unemployment rate][6], [inflation][4] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Markets.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx