+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-10"
description = "Eurogroup Agrees Rescue Package To Mitigate Covid-19 Downturn"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurogroup Agrees Rescue Package To Mitigate Covid-19 Downturn"
type = "post"
+++

Eurozone finance ministers agreed an emergency plan to mitigate the
downturn caused by the [coronavirus][1] pandemic after marathon
discussions, on Thursday.

"This response contains bold and ambitious proposals that would have
been unthinkable just a few weeks ago," Eurogroup President MÃ¡rio
Centeno said.

"We can all remember the response to the financial crisis of the last
decade when Europe did too little, too late," Centeno added. "This time
around, it is different."

Finance ministers agreed to establish Pandemic Crisis Support package
with a size close to EUR 240 billion, which is about 2 percent of GDP.
This will be available to all members of the European Stability
Mechanism, a bailout fund.

Further, the European Investment Bank would create a pan-European shield
which aims to guarantee EUR 200 billion loans, with a focus on small and
medium-sized firms.

Excellent agreement between EU finance ministers on the economic
response to coronavirus, French finance minister Bruno Le Maire said on
Twitter after the talks.

He said EUR 500 billion will be made available immediately. Europe
stands up to face the seriousness of the crisis, he added.

This aid package presented by the Eurogroup leaves the question whether
any of the countries will be satisfied, Carsten Brzeski and Bert Colijn,
ING economists said.

Concerns along the lines of not enough or too much burden sharing will
remain after this compromise, they said.

Tonight's package leaves enough undone to do a next season of the
Eurogroup tv series sooner or later, economists added.

Eurozone is hit severely by the Covid-19 pandemic that saw thousands of
lives lost in big countries such as Italy, Spain and France. Countries
in the region have imposed lockdowns thus halting most economic
activity.

European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde reportedly said the
euro area [economy][2] could shrink over 10 percent this year, which is
the worst on record, if the lockdowns continue over an extended period
of time.

The Bank of France this week estimated that the French economy is set to
shrink 6 percent in the first quarter due to the Covid-19 disruption,
thus pushing the economy into a technical recession. The predicted
decline is the worst since 1945.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Forex News][3]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Forex.aspx