+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-31"
description = "Eurozone GDP Contracts At Record Pace Amid Covid-19 Pandemic"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone GDP Contracts At Record Pace Amid Covid-19 Pandemic"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The euro area [economy][1] contracted at the fastest pace on record in
the second quarter to enter a historic recession as all major economies
in the bloc logged double-digit declines due to the restrictions imposed
to curb the spread of the coronavirus.

Gross domestic product fell 12.1 percent on a quarterly basis, bigger
than the 3.6 percent drop in the first quarter, preliminary flash
estimate published by Eurostat showed Friday.

This was bigger than the economists' forecast of 11.2 percent and was
the sharpest decline seen since the series began in 1995. The revised
estimate for the second quarter is due on August 14.  
  
Year-on-year, GDP was down 15 percent versus a 3.1 percent decline a
quarter ago. Economic output was expected to fall 13.9 percent.

All big-four member countries contracted sharply, with Spain posting the
biggest fall of 18.5 percent on quarter, much larger than the 5.2
percent decrease logged in the first quarter.

France's economy shrank by a record 13.8 percent sequentially, following
the first quarter's 5.9 percent decrease. Likewise, the decline in
Italy's GDP deepened to 12.4 percent from 5.4 percent in the first
quarter.

Germany's GDP fell 10.1 percent sequentially after shrinking 2 percent
in the first quarter.

Parts of the economy have sprung back to life since April, but the
damage already done plus the current and future impact of the virus mean
the recovery will be painfully slow and uneven, Andrew Kenningham, an
economist at Capital Economics, said.

While GDP has already started to climb thanks to reopenings, a V-shaped
recovery is wishful thinking, Bert Colijn, an ING economist said.

According to the European Commission forecast, the currency bloc will
shrink 8.7 percent in 2020 before expanding 6.1 percent in 2021.

Another report from Eurostat showed that inflation in the currency bloc
rose unexpectedly to 0.4 percent in July from 0.3 percent in June.
Economists had forecast the rate to ease to 0.2 percent.

Headline inflation continued to remain well below the European Central
Bank's target of "below, but close to 2 percent."

On a monthly basis, the harmonized index of consumer prices was down 0.3
percent.

Core inflation that excludes energy, food, alcohol and beverages,
accelerated to 1.2 percent from 0.8 percent in June.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][2]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx