+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-01"
description = "China Manufacturing Sector Expands Marginally In October"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "China Manufacturing Sector Expands Marginally In October"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

China's manufacturing activity grew marginally in October as power
shortages and rising costs weighed on production, survey results from
IHS Markit showed on Monday.

The Caixin manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 50.6 in
October from 50.0 in September. A reading above 50.0 indicates expansion
in the sector. Although only slight, the rate of expansion was the
strongest recorded since June.

Official survey results published over the weekend showed that the
manufacturing PMI dropped to 49.2 in October from 49.6 a month ago. At
the same time, the non-manufacturing PMI came in at 52.4, down from 53.2
in September.

Total new orders increased at the fastest pace in four months driven by
domestic demand. Meanwhile, foreign demand dropped for the third
straight month.

Despite rising amounts of overall new work, manufacturers recorded a
third successive monthly decline in production.

Lower production contributed to a further drop in manufacturing sector
employment in October. Nonetheless, the rate of job shedding eased to a
marginal pace.

Supply chain delays became more widespread in October, with average lead
times for inputs increasing at the fastest rate since March 2020.

On the price front, the survey showed that input price inflation was the
steepest since December 2016. Consequently, output charges also rose at
a notably quicker rate during October.

Chinese manufacturers were generally optimistic that output will rise
over the next twelve months, though the degree of positive sentiment
eased slightly since September.

To sum up, manufacturing recovered slightly in October from the previous
month. But downward pressure on economic growth continued, Wang Zhe, a
senior economist at Caixin Insight Group said.

"Policymakers should not only take effective measures to stabilize
commodity supplies and prices, but also pay close attention to
downstream firms, especially small and midsize ones," Wang added.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx