+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-12-01"
description = "South Korea GDP Gains 0.3% On Quarter In Q3"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "South Korea GDP Gains 0.3% On Quarter In Q3"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

South Korea's gross domestic product expanded a seasonally adjusted 0.3
percent on quarter in the third quarter of 2021, the Bank of Korea said
in Thursday's preliminary report.

That was in line with expectations and down from the 0.8 percent growth
in the previous three months.

On an annualized yearly basis, GDP jumped 4.0 percent - again roughly
matching estimates and slowing from 6.0 percent in the second quarter.

Real gross national income (GNI) decreased by 0.7 percent on quarter in
the third quarter but gained 2.8 percent on year.

On the production side, manufacturing was consistent with the previous
quarter, as machinery and equipment increased while transportation
equipment decreased. Construction declined by 2.4 percent, owing to a
decrease in civil engineering. Services grew by 0.5 percent, with
increases in finance and insurance and human [health][1] and social
work.

On the expenditure side, private consumption contracted by 0.2 percent,
as expenditures on non-durable goods increased but services decreased.
Government consumption rose by 1.3 percent, mainly due to increased
expenditures on goods. Construction investment contracted by 3.5
percent, as civil engineering decreased. Facilities investment fell by
2.4 percent, driven by a decrease in transportation equipment. Exports
went up by 1.8 percent, due to increases in coal & petroleum products
and machinery & equipment. Imports fell by 0.7 percent, owing to
decreased imports of transport equipment.

Nominal GNI rose by 0.1 percent in the third quarter of 2021 relative to
the quarter before, increasing less than nominal GDP (1.4 percent) as
net factor income from the rest of the world fell. Real GNI decreased by
0.7 percent compared to the previous quarter, decreasing more than real
GDP (0.3 percent) as net factor income from the rest of the world fell.
The GDP deflator increased by 2.3 percent year on year.

The gross saving ratio (gross saving/gross national disposable income)
stood at 35.9 percent, 0.1 percentage points higher than in the previous
quarter, as the nominal gross disposable income (0.5 percent) increased
slightly more than the final consumption expenditure (0.3 percent). The
gross domestic investment ratio (gross capital formation/GNDI) was 31.6
percent, 0.1 percentage points lower than in the previous quarter, due
to a decrease in facilities investment.

Also on Thursday, Statistics Korea said that consumer prices in South
Korea climbed 3.7 percent on year in November. That surpassed
expectations for 3.1 percent and was up from 3.2 percent in October.

On a monthly basis, inflation rose 0.4 percent versus forecasts for a
decline of 0.2 percent and up from 0.1 percent in the previous month.

Core CPI, which excludes volatile food prices, added 0.1 percent on
month and 1.9 percent on year after gaining 0.3 percent on month and 2.4
percent on year in October.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Health.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx