+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-11"
description = "U.S. Producer Prices Inch Slightly Higher In November"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. Producer Prices Inch Slightly Higher In November"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Producer prices in the U.S. edged slightly higher in the month of
November, according to a report released by the Labor Department on
Friday.

The Labor Department said its producer price index for final demand
inched up by 0.1 percent in November after climbing by 0.3 percent in
October. Economists had expected producer prices to rise by 0.2 percent.

The uptick in producer prices was partly due to a jump in energy prices,
which surged up by 1.2 percent in November following a 0.8 percent
increase in October.

The report also showed food prices rose by 0.5 percent in November after
spiking by 2.4 percent in the previous month.

Excluding food and energy prices, core producer prices still crept up by
0.1 percent in November, matching the uptick seen in October. Core
prices were expected to increase by 0.2 percent.

The Labor Department said the index for final demand services was
unchanged in November after rising by 0.2 percent in October.

Prices for trade services and transportation and warehousing services
decreased by 0.3 percent and 0.9 percent, respectively, while prices for
other services rose by 0.2 percent.

Compared to the same month a year ago, producer prices in November were
up by 0.8 percent, reflecting an acceleration from the 0.5 percent
growth in October.

The annual rate of growth in core producers also accelerated to 1.4
percent in November from 1.1 percent in the previous month.

"Inflation remains in check, and high frequency data suggests that
households are still hesitant to spend at pre-virus levels, signaling
that price dynamics will continue to undershoot the Fed's 2% target in
the near-term," said Mahir Rasheed, Associate U.S. Economist at Oxford
Economics.

On Thursday, the Labor Department released a separate report showing a
modest increase in U.S. consumer prices in the month of November.

The Labor Department said its consumer price index rose by 0.2 percent
in November after coming in unchanged in October. The uptick in consumer
prices matched economist estimates.

Excluding food and energy prices, core consumer prices still edged up by
0.2 percent in November after showing no change in the previous month.
Economists had expected core prices to inch up by 0.1 percent.

The report said the annual rates of growth in consumer prices and core
consumer prices were unchanged from the previous month at 1.2 percent
and 1.6 percent, respectively.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/retail-sales/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx