+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-03"
description = "U.S. Service Sector Index Rebounds From Eleven-Year Low In May"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. Service Sector Index Rebounds From Eleven-Year Low In May"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Activity in the U.S. service sector continued to contract in the month
of May, although a report released by the Institute for Supply
Management on Wednesday showed the pace of contraction slowed by even
more than economists had been expecting.

The ISM said its non-manufacturing index rebounded to 45.4 in May after
plunging to an eleven-year low of 41.8 in April.

A reading below 50 still indicates a contraction in service sector
activity, but the index came in above economist estimates for a reading
of 44.0.

Despite the rebound by the index, Anthony Nieves, Chair of the ISM Non-
Manufacturing Business Survey Committee, noted, "Respondents remain
concerned about the ongoing impact of the [coronavirus][1]."

"Additionally, many of the respondents' respective companies are hoping
and/or planning for a resumption of [business][2]," he added.

The bigger than expected increase by the headline index was partly due
to a substantial rebound by the business activity index, which spiked to
41.0 in May from 26.0 in April.

The new orders index also jumped to 41.9 in May from 32.9 in April,
while the employment index rose to 31.8 from 30.0. The readings below 50
still indicate contraction.

On the inflation front, the prices index inched up to 55.6 in May from
55.1 in April, pointing to a slight acceleration in the pace of price
growth.

"We may be past the bottom and non-manufacturing activity may start to
slowly improve in June, but we are still a long way from returning to
pre-virus conditions," said a note from economists at Oxford Economics.

The added, "The road ahead is fraught with significant downside risks,
and severe demand destruction, supply chain disruptions, tighter
financial conditions, and concerns of a second wave of coronavirus
contagion minimize chances of a strong rebound."

The ISM released a separate report on Monday showing manufacturing
activity in the U.S. contracted at a slightly slower rate in the month
of May.

The organization said its purchasing managers index rose to 43.1 in May
from 41.5 in April, coming in just below economist estimates for a
reading of 43.6.

While the index rebounded from its lowest level since April of 2009, a
reading below 50 still indicates a contraction in manufacturing
activity.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Forex News][3]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Forex.aspx