+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-04"
description = "Eurozone Manufacturing Growth Accelerates In December"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone Manufacturing Growth Accelerates In December"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Eurozone manufacturing conditions improved to its highest level since
May 2018 driven by stronger rises in output and new orders, final data
from IHS Markit showed Monday.

The manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 55.2 in December
from 53.8 in November. The reading was below the flash estimate of 55.5.

The headline reading was above the crucial 50.0 no-change mark that
separates growth from contraction for a sixth successive month.

The [economy][1] looks set to be hit by the pandemic in the fourth
quarter far less than the unprecedented decline in the second quarter,
Chris Williamson, chief [business][2] economist at IHS Markit said.

However, rising virus case numbers are likely to mean trading conditions
remain challenging in the near-term and therefore constrain growth, the
economist added.

Manufacturing output increased for the sixth straight month. The
improvement was linked to a similar-sized increase in new orders.

However, firms on average made further cuts to their staffing levels,
extending the current period of decline to 20 months.

Operating expenses of manufacturers rose to the greatest degree since
November 2018. Selling prices were subsequently increased for a third
consecutive month and at the fastest rate since February 2019.

Confidence about the coming 12 months improved to the highest level in
nearly three years as optimism rose on hopes that operating conditions
would be closer to normal by the end of 2021.

Growth was again led by Germany, where the rate of expansion was the
best for nearly three years. Italy reported solid growth in December
compared to much more moderate gains in France and Spain.

Germany's manufacturing sector continued to recover from the shutdowns
induced by the pandemic. The manufacturing PMI advanced to 58.3 from
57.8 in November. This was below the flash reading of 58.6.

The French manufacturing sector rebounded in December, predominantly
driven by a renewed expansion of production, which helped to offset a
further decline in new orders. The final factory PMI came in at 51.1, in
line with the flash estimate, and up from 49.6 in November.

Italy's manufacturing conditions improved in December with output growth
quickening amid a renewed upturn in order book volumes. The factory PMI
rose to 52.8 in December from 51.5 in November.

Spain's manufacturing economy returned to growth in December. The
manufacturing PMI came in at 51.0 compared to 49.8 in the previous
month.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][3] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx