+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-22"
description = "ADB Raises Developing Asia 2022 Growth Outlook"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "ADB Raises Developing Asia 2022 Growth Outlook"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The Asian Development Bank raised its economic growth projections for
the next year but signaled divergence in the recovery paths among
regional economies.

In its latest Asian Development Outlook 2021 Update, released Wednesday,
the ADB said developing Asia will expand 5.4 percent next year, instead
of 5.3 percent estimated previously.  
  
Meanwhile, the outlook for 2021 was downgraded to 7.1 percent from 7.3
percent.

While growth forecasts are raised for East Asia and Central Asia,
downward revisions for the rest of the region weighed on the outlook.

"The COVID-19 continues to besiege developing Asia, but vaccines are
changing the nature of the pandemic," ADB said. Uneven vaccination
coverage is furthering regional divergence.

The agency cited the emergence of new variants, slower-than-expected
vaccine rollouts, and waning vaccine effectiveness as the main risks to
the economic outlook. The ADB cautioned that geopolitical tensions,
financial turmoil, and disruptions to global supply chains may also
undermine the region's growth prospects.

The Manila-based lender said growth forecasts have been revised up for
those economies that have managed to contain COVID-19.

The rapid economic recovery will continue across East Asia. The sub-
region was forecast to grow 7.6 percent in 2021 and 5.1 percent in 2022.

Growth in China will remain strong, despite a protracted recovery in
household consumption, the lender said. The GDP growth projection
remained unchanged at 8.1 percent in 2021 and 5.5 percent in 2022.

The growth forecast for India in fiscal year ending September 2021 was
revised down, as May's spike in COVID-19 dented the recovery. The
[economy][1] is expected to rebound strongly in the remaining three
quarters, and grow 10.0 percent in the full fiscal year before
moderating to 7.5 percent in FY2022.

The outlook varies across South Asia. The sub-region was projected to
expand more slowly this year than earlier projected, but faster next
year. According to ADB, GDP will rise 8.8 percent in 2021 and 7 percent
next year.

Southeast Asia will recover at a much slower pace than earlier
projected. The outlook for 2021 was lowered to 3.1 percent from the
earlier projection of 4.4 percent and to 5.0 percent from 5.1 percent
for 2022.

Central Asia's growth forecast was lifted to 4.1 percent from the
earlier projection of 3.4 percent for 2021 and to 4.2 percent from 4.0
percent for 2022.

Meanwhile, the Pacific will continue contracting for the second
consecutive year and by 0.6 percent in 2021, a downward revision from
ADO 2021's projection of 1.4 percent growth. By contrast, the forecast
for 2022 was upgraded to 4.8 percent from 3.8 percent.

On inflation front, the ADB said price pressures are expected to remain
in check, with headline inflation forecast at 2.2 percent in 2021 and
2.7 percent in 2022.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx