+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-29"
description = "South Korea Industrial Production Climbs 0.3% In November"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "South Korea Industrial Production Climbs 0.3% In November"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Industrial output in South Korea rose a seasonally adjusted 0.3 percent
on month in November, Statistics Korea said on Wednesday - shy of
expectations for an increase of 0.8 percent following the 1.2 percent
contraction in October.

On a yearly basis, industrial production gained 0.5 percent - again
missing forecasts for an increase of 1.0 percent after sinking 2.2
percent in the previous month.

The index of all industry production was up 0.7 percent on month and
down 0.6 percent on year after dropping 0.1 percent on month and 2.6
percent on year in October.

The Manufacturing Production Index in November increased 0.3 percent on
month and 0.7 percent on year. The Manufacturing Shipment Index added
0.3 percent on month and 1.2 percent on year. The Manufacturing
Inventory Index fell 1.2 percent on month and 1.3 percent on year.

The Production Capacity Index in November eased 0.1 percent both on
month and on year. The Index of Capacity Utilization Rate added 0.1
percent on month but fell 0.5 percent on year.

The Manufacturing Average Capacity Utilization Rate in November marked
73.8 percent, which showed no change from the previous month. The Index
of Services in November gained 0.7 percent on month but shed 1.4 percent
on year.

The Retail Sales Index in November shed 0.9 percent on month and 1.5
percent on year. The Equipment Investment Index jumped 3.6 percent on
month and 5.7 percent on year.

The Domestic Machinery Shipment Index spiked 9.7 percent on year. The
value of Domestic Machinery Orders Received in November sank 2.1 percent
on year. The value of Construction Completed at constant prices gained
2.1 percent on month but lost 0.8 percent on year. The value of
Construction Orders Received at current prices surged an annual 30.0
percent.

The Composite Coincident Index in November rose 0.7 percent on month.
The Cyclical Component of Composite Coincident Index, which reflects
current economic situations, added 0.5 points on month. The Composite
Leading Index gained 0.9 percent on month. The Cyclical Component of
Composite Leading Index, which predicts the turning point in
[business][1] cycle, rose 0.7 points on month.

Also on Wednesday:  
• Statistics Korea said that the value of retail sales in South Korea
was down a seasonally adjusted 1.0 percent on month in November,
following the 0.9 percent contraction in the previous month. On a yearly
basis, retail sales skidded 1.5 percent after dropping 0.2 percent a
month earlier.  
• The Bank of Korea said that business confidence eased in December with
an unadjusted Business Survey Index score of 82.0 - down from 85.0 in
November. Seasonally adjusted, the index score was 83.0. The outlook
fell from 81.0 to 77.0.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx