+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-25"
description = "New Zealand July Trade Surplus NZ$282 Million"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "New Zealand July Trade Surplus NZ$282 Million"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

New Zealand posted a merchandise trade surplus of NZ$282 million in
July, Statistics New Zealand said on Wednesday - down from NZ$426
million in June.

Imports tumbled 18.0 percent on year to NZ$4.6 billion, while exports
eased an annual0.2 percent to NZ$4.9 billion.

For the first month in almost 34 years, no crude oil was imported into
New Zealand, the stats bureau noted.

In the past three months, total imports have been very low while exports
have been holding up, leading to the smallest annual trade deficit since
the October 2014 year.

Crude oil imports have been much lower than usual since May 2020 as
demand dropped due to COVID-19. International travel restrictions and
the COVID-19 lockdown in April meant far fewer people traveled by road
or air.

"The last time no crude oil was imported in a single month was in August
1986, a year when international demand for oil fell and prices dropped
sharply," international statistics manager Darren Allan said.

Also contributing to the fall in total imports in July 2020 were motor
vehicles, down NZ$234 million; and truck and vans, down NZ$122 million.

Car imports have been much lower than usual since April 2020, when the
alert level 4 lockdown meant car dealers were closed as a non-essential
[business][1].

Face mask imports increased sharply this year as the COVID-19 global
pandemic spread and New Zealand moved into lockdown.

New Zealand has imported NZ$232 million worth of face masks since the
beginning of the year, up NZ$189 million from NZ$43 million for the same
period last year. This includes all types of face masks, from surgical
masks to painting and dust masks.

Of New Zealand's main trading partners, imports from the European Union
had the biggest fall in July 2020, down NZ$262 million when compared
with July 2019. Aircraft and parts led the fall, down NZ$120 million (89
percent), while imports of electric trains increased, up NZ$36 million.

Imports from the United States fell NZ$76 million, led by machinery and
equipment (such as turbo-jet and turbo propeller parts), down NZ$59
million.

Goods imports from China were up NZ$108 million (10 percent) in July
2020 when compared with July 2019. The leading rises were electrical
machinery and equipment (such as mobile phones), up NZ$53 million,
fertilizers, up NZ$30 million, and textiles (such as face masks), up
NZ$18 million.

Exports to China fell NZ$28 million compared with July 2019, with beef
exports down NZ$74 million and dairy down NZ$37 million.

These decreases were partly offset by exports of live animals to China,
up NZ$68 million. There were over 30,000 cattle exported to China in
July 2020.

Total exports to the United States rose NZ$89 million, led by beef (up
NZ$70 million), and exports to the European Union rose NZ$54 million,
led by kiwifruit (up NZ$39 million).

In the year to July, imports fell NZ$4.1 billion or 6.4 percent to
NZ$60.3 billion and exports sank NZ$1.3 billion or 2.1 percent to
NZ$60.2 billion. The trade deficit was NZ$115 million.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][3] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx