+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-12"
description = "UK Economy Contracts Most On Record Amid Covid-19 Restrictions"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "UK Economy Contracts Most On Record Amid Covid-19 Restrictions"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The UK [economy][1] contracted in April at the fastest pace since the
series began in 1997, as restrictions on movement amid the coronavirus
pandemic severely hurt economic activity.

Gross domestic product contracted by a more-than-expected 20.4 percent
in April from March, when it was down 5.8 percent, data from the Office
for National Statistics showed Friday. GDP was forecast to fall 18.4
percent.  
  
In the three months to April, GDP decreased 10.4 percent, which was
slightly faster than the expected fall of 10 percent.

Jonathan Athow, Deputy National Statistician for Economic Statistics,
said, "April's fall in GDP is the biggest the UK has ever seen, more
than three times larger than last month and almost ten times larger than
the steepest pre-covid-19 fall."

Virtually all areas of the economy were hit, with pubs, education,
[health][2] and car sales all giving the biggest contributions to this
historic fall, Athow added.

Record contractions were registered across services, industrial
production, manufacturing and construction in April.

The services sector reported a monthly fall of 19 percent in April
versus a 6.2 percent decrease a month ago. The largest contributors to
the decline were wholesale, retail and motor trades.

At the same time, industrial output declined by a record 20.3 percent in
April from the previous month, with manufacturing providing the biggest
downward contribution, falling by a record 24.3 percent.

Economists had forecast industrial production to drop 15 percent after
easing 4.2 percent a month ago. Similarly, manufacturing output was
expected to decline 15.8 percent versus March's 4.6 percent drop.

On a yearly basis, the decline in industrial production deepened to 24.4
percent from 8.2 percent. Likewise, manufacturing output dropped 28.5
percent versus a 9.7 percent decrease a month ago.

Construction decreased 40.1 percent monthly compared to a 5.9 percent
drop in March. Farm output fell only 5.5 percent in April.

Another report from ONS showed that the visible trade deficit narrowed
to GBP 7.49 billion from GBP 11.85 billion in March. Exports and imports
decreased 14.9 percent and 21.9 percent, respectively.

At the same time, the total trade balance showed a surplus of GBP 305
million compared to a shortfall of GBP 3.95 billion in March.

As social distancing constraints, consumer and [business][3] caution, as
well as Brexit, all pose challenges to the UK economic recovery, the
Bank of England is likely to continue expanding its balance sheet, James
Smith, an economist at ING economist, said.

The economist expects the Bank of England to increase its quantitative
easing programme next week.

The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, earlier this
week, projected the UK economy to shrink sharply by 14 percent in 2020,
if there is a second virus outbreak later in the year. An equally likely
single-hit scenario would still see GDP fall sharply by 11.5 percent,
the think tank said.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][3]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Health.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx