+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-14"
description = "Singapore GDP Climbs 0.8% On Quarter In Q3"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Singapore GDP Climbs 0.8% On Quarter In Q3"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Singapore's gross domestic product expanded a seasonally adjusted 0.8
percent on quarter in the third quarter of 2021, the Ministry of Trade
said in Thursday's advance estimate.

That was in line with estimates following the upwardly revised 1.4
percent contraction in the previous three months (originally -1.8
percent).

On a yearly basis, GDP climbed 6.5 percent - just shy of forecasts for
6.6 percent following the upwardly revised 15.2 percent jump in the
three months prior (originally 14.7 percent).

The manufacturing sector grew 7.5 percent on year in the third quarter
of 2021, extending the 18.0 percent growth in the previous quarter.
Growth during the quarter was supported by output expansions in all
clusters, except for the chemicals cluster. On a quarterly basis, the
manufacturing sector remained unchanged in the third quarter, an
improvement from the 2.1 percent decline in the second quarter.

The construction sector surged 57.9 percent on year following the 117.5
percent growth in Q2. Growth was largely due to low base effects given
the slow resumption of construction activities after the Circuit Breaker
period last year. On a quarterly basis, the sector shrank by 0.4
percent, moderating from the 2.4 percent contraction in the previous
quarter.

Among the services sectors, the wholesale & retail trade and
transportation & storage sectors grew 5.0 percent on year in Q3,
extending the 8.5 percent growth in the previous quarter. All sectors
within the group expanded during the quarter. In particular, the
wholesale trade sector grew on the back of a pickup in external demand.
On a quarterly basis, the sectors contracted by 1.3 percent, worsening
slightly from the 1.0 percent contraction in the preceding quarter.

The information & communications, finance & insurance and professional
services sectors collectively expanded 7.7 percent on year in the third
quarter, extending the 10.1 percent growth in the preceding quarter. All
sectors within the group recorded expansions. On a quarterly basis, the
sectors in the group posted growth of 1.2 percent, extending the 2.3 per
cent expansion in the previous quarter.

The accommodation & food services, real estate, administrative & support
services and other services sectors grew 3.1 percent on year, moderating
from the 14.5 percent expansion in the previous quarter. Within the
group, the real estate and other services sectors expanded, while the
accommodation & food services and administrative & support services
sectors contracted. On a quarterly basis, these sectors grew 0.8 percent
in Q3, a turnaround from the 2.2 percent contraction in the preceding
quarter.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/retail-sales/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx