+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-23"
description = "New Zealand Retail Sales Tumble Amidst Q2 Lockdown"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "New Zealand Retail Sales Tumble Amidst Q2 Lockdown"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Retail sales values in New Zealand plummeted 15 percent on quarter in
the second quarter of 2020 during the COVID-19 lockdown, Statistics New
Zealand said on Monday - marking the largest drop on record going back
25 years.

Individually, declines in value were led by food and beverage services,
down 40 percent (NZ$1.2 billion); fuel retailing, down 35 percent
(NZ$770 million); motor vehicle and parts retailing, down 22 percent
(NZ$729 million); and accommodation, down 44 percent (NZ$418 million).

"This unprecedented fall in the June quarter was not unexpected, with
COVID-19 restrictions significantly limiting retail activity," retail
statistics manager Kathy Hicks said. "Non-essential businesses closed
temporarily for about half of the quarter during alert levels 4 and 3."

Most industries saw unprecedented sales falls in the June quarter. Sales
for food and beverage services fell 40 percent or NZ$1.2 billion in the
quarter, the largest drop of any industry.

"For a team of 5 million, that is equal to each person spending about
$18 a week less on eating out over the June quarter," Hicks said.

Fuel retailing had the second largest fall, down 35 percent or NZ$770
million. These falls were followed by: motor vehicles and parts
retailing, down 22 percent (NZ$729 million); accommodation services,
down 44 percent (NZ$418 million); and hardware, building, and garden
supplies down 16 percent (NZ$350 million).

These falls were partly offset by a substantial increase in supermarket
and grocery stores, up 12 percent (NZ$615 million) from the June 2019
quarter. This follows a record rise of 13 percent (NZ$665 million) in
the March 2020 quarter.

"Supermarkets and grocery stores were essential services that stayed
open during the lockdown, and the strong increase in sales values
reflects that," Hicks said.

Sales values for the non-store and commission-based industry rose 20
percent (NZ$94 million) in the June 2020 quarter. Online businesses were
in demand during the lockdown period, providing a wide range of products
and the advantage of home delivery. Electrical and electronic goods
retailing was up 5.4 percent (NZ$49 million).

"These businesses were able to operate online under lockdown as an
essential service." Hicks said. "They provided food deliveries and
electronic supplies, such as heaters or computer monitors for home
office set-ups during lockdown."

The total volume of retail sales dropped 14 percent on quarter.

Sales volumes for food and beverage services were down 42 percent. The
second largest fall was for motor vehicles and parts retailing (down 22
percent).

These falls were followed by fuel retailing (down 25 percent), hardware,
building and garden supplies (down 18 percent), and accommodation, (down
45 percent).

"Fuel retailing was affected partly by lower demand due to non-essential
travel restrictions and cheaper prices at the pump," Hicks said.

Retail sales values fell across all 16 regions in the June 2020 quarter
when compared with the June 2019 quarter.

The Auckland region had the largest dollar value fall this quarter, down
13 percent (NZ$1.2 billion). Canterbury had the next largest fall in
dollar [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/), down 17 percent (NZ$516 million).

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx