+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-01-05"
description = "Eurozone Private Sector Growth Eases To 9-Month Low"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone Private Sector Growth Eases To 9-Month Low"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The euro area private sector growth eased to a nine-month low in
December, resuming a slowdown trend amid a resurgence of COVID-19
infections, survey results from IHS Markit showed on Wednesday.

The composite output index fell to 53.3 in December from 55.4 in
November. The score was slightly below the flash 53.4.

The direction of growth differed by sector, with a slowdown in the
Eurozone's dominant services sector to blame for a weaker improvement at
the composite level. At the same time, manufacturing upturn remained
subdued relative to the 2021 average.

The services Purchasing Managers' Index came in at 53.1, down from 55.9
in the previous month. The flash score was 53.3.

While difficulties in obtaining inputs was once again noted as a major
headwind for manufacturers, a resurgence in the pandemic across the euro
area was a considerable drag on activity and demand in the services
sector.

"As euro area nations deal with the latest developments in the pandemic,
it's clear that risks to the [economy][1] are now greater as tighter
restrictions to curb the spread of COVID-19 are more likely than they
have been recently," Joe Hayes, a senior economist at IHS Markit said.

The final composite PMIs for December confirmed that the Eurozone
economy ended 2021 on a weak note, consistent with the assessment that
GDP rose by only about 0.2 percent sequentially in the fourth quarter,
Jack Allen-Reynolds, an economist at Capital Economics, said. They also
suggest that price pressures remain intense.

Among member countries, slower rates of growth were seen in France,
Spain and Italy, while the level of [business][2] activity in Germany
was broadly stagnant over the month.  
  
Germany's recovery stalled at the end of the year as the faster rise in
manufacturing output was offset by the decline in services activity.  
  
The composite output index fell to 49.9 from 52.2 in November and was
below the flash score of 50.0. The services PMI declined to 48.7 in
December from 52.7 a month ago. The flash reading was 48.4.

France's private sector continued to expand in December but it masked
the notable divergences between the two contributing sectors. At 55.8 in
December, the composite output index dropped from 56.1 in November but
remained above the flash 55.6.

The services PMI slid to 57.0 from 57.4 in November. The flash score was
57.1. Nonetheless, the pace of expansion was the second-fastest since
June.  
  
Italy's private sector expanded for the eleventh straight month in
December. The composite PMI posted 54.7 in December, down from 57.6 in
November. The services PMI dropped to 53.0 from 55.9 in the previous
month.

Spain's private sector economy expanded at its slowest rate in the past
eight months in December. The composite output index declined to 55.4
from 58.3 a month ago. At the same time, the services PMI came in at
55.8, falling from 59.7 in November.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx