+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-24"
description = "German Ifo Business Confidence Deteriorates In November"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "German Ifo Business Confidence Deteriorates In November"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Germany's [business][1] sentiment weakened in November as the fourth
wave of pandemic caused expectations to fall especially in the service
sector, survey results from the ifo Institute showed on Wednesday.

The business confidence index fell to 96.5 in November from 97.7 in
October. The reading was forecast to drop to 96.6.

Companies were less satisfied with their current business situation, and
expectations became more pessimistic.

The current conditions indicator came in at 99.0, in line with
expectations, and down from 100.2 a month ago. At the same time, the
business expectations index posted 94.2 in November. The score was
expected to fall to 95.0 from October's 95.4.

Supply bottlenecks and the fourth wave of the [coronavirus][2] are
challenging German companies, Clemens Fuest, ifo President, said.

The survey suggested that the German [economy][3] was struggling even
before the recent tightening of Covid restrictions, Andrew Kenningham,
an economist at Capital Economics, said. Things will be much worse in
December as coronavirus restrictions are tightened further.

In the manufacturing sector, the ifo business climate index fell as
companies assessed their current business as considerably worse. By
contrast, their expectations brightened somewhat, especially due to
developments in the automotive industry.

According to ifo, supply bottlenecks in intermediate products and raw
materials still have a grip on the manufacturing sector and a majority
of companies plan to raise prices.

Sentiment in the service sector deteriorated noticeably in November.
Skepticism grew substantially, especially as regards expectations.
Service providers were less satisfied with their current situation as
well.

The business climate index weakened in trade reflecting greater
pessimism in companies' expectations, although they rated their current
situation as somewhat improved. The mood in retail continues to suffer
due to supply problems and prices are more likely to increase over the
coming months, the survey showed.

The business climate in the construction industry worsened slightly in
November. Following the continuous upswing of recent months,
expectations have turned more pessimistic. Companies judged their
current situation to be somewhat better.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][3]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][4] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][4]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][5], [unemployment rate][6], [inflation][7] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   7. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx