+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-24"
description = "Singapore GDP Jumps 7.1% On Year In Q3"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Singapore GDP Jumps 7.1% On Year In Q3"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Singapore's gross domestic product expanded 7.1 percent on year in the
third quarter of 2021, the Ministry of Trade and Industry said on
Wednesday.

That beat expectations for an increase of 6.5 percent following the
upwardly revised 15.2 percent spike in the previous three months
(originally 14.7 percent).

On a seasonally adjusted quarterly basis, GDP was up 1.3 percent - again
beating forecasts for a gain of 1.0 percent following the upwardly
revised 1.4 percent contraction in the second quarter (originally -1.8
percent).

Upon the release of the data, the MTI raised its forecast for annual
growth in 2021 to 7.0 percent and in the range of 3 to 5 percent in
2022.

By sectors, the manufacturing sector grew 7.2 percent on year,
moderating from 17.9 percent growth in the preceding quarter. On a
quarterly basis, the manufacturing sector shrank by 0.1 percent, easing
from the 2.2 percent contraction in the second quarter.

The construction sector surged 66.3 percent on year, slowing from the
117.5 percent expansion in Q2. On quarter, the sector gained 4.9
percent, a reversal from the 2.4 percent contraction in the second
quarter.

The wholesale trade sector gained 5.9 percent on year, faster than the
3.4 percent expansion in the previous quarter. On quarter, the sector
registered flat growth, improving from the 0.6 per cent contraction in
the preceding quarter.

The retail trade sector expanded by 0.7 percent on year, slower from the
51.1 percent surge in the previous quarter. On quarter, the sector grew
3.1 percent, a reversal from the 4.3 percent contraction in the
preceding quarter.

Growth in the transportation & storage sector slowed to 8.2 percent on
year, from 20.1 percent in the second quarter. On quarter, the sector
expanded by 1.3 percent, a turnaround from the 2.3 percent contraction
in Q2.

The accommodation sector contracted by 4.1 percent on year, a reversal
from the 15.8 percent expansion in the preceding quarter. On quarter,
the sector grew by 3.6 percent, moderating from the 4.5 percent growth
in the previous quarter.

The food and beverage services sector shrank 4.2 percent on year, in
contrast to the 36.9 percent expansion in the second quarter. On
quarter, the sector contracted by 2.8 percent, extending the 8.0 percent
contraction in Q2.

The information and communications sector jumped 10.4 percent on year,
the same pace of growth as in the previous quarter. On quarter, the
sector grew 6.2 percent, faster than the 1.0 percent growth in the
second quarter.

Growth in the finance and insurance sector came in at 9.0 percent on
year, extending the 9.8 percent gain in the preceding quarter. On
quarter, the sector expanded marginally by 0.2 percent, moderating from
the 2.7 percent growth in the previous quarter.

The real estate sector grew 16.8 percent on year, slower than the 26.3
percent growth in the preceding quarter. On quarter, the sector saw
growth of 3.9 percent, a turnaround from the contraction of 3.3 percent
in the second quarter.

The professional services sector expanded 4.4 percent on year,
moderating from the 10.8 percent expansion in the previous quarter. On
quarter, the sector added 1.2 percent, extending the 0.9 percent growth
in the preceding quarter.

The administrative and support services sector contracted by 1.3 percent
on year, following the flat growth in the second quarter. On quarter,
the sector expanded marginally by 0.2 percent, improving from the 1.1
percent contraction in the previous quarter.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx