+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-30"
description = "European Economics Preview: Eurozone Flash GDP Data Due"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "European Economics Preview: Eurozone Flash GDP Data Due"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Flash quarterly national accounts, consumer prices and unemployment
reports from the euro area are due on Friday, headlining a busy day for
the European economic [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).

At 2.30 am ET, the French statistical office Insee is set to publish
first estimate for the third quarter GDP and household consumption for
September. The [economy][1] is forecast to grow 15.4 percent
sequentially, in contrast to a 13.8 percent fall in the second quarter.

At 3.00 am ET, Destatis is slated to release Germany's retail sales
figures for September. Economists forecast sales to drop 0.8 percent on
month, reversing a 3.1 percent rise in August.

Germany's Gfk consumer confidence survey data is due.

In the meantime, UK Nationwide house price data is due. House prices are
expected to climb 5.2 percent annually after rising 5 percent in
September.

At 3.45 am ET, preliminary consumer price data is due from France. EU
harmonized prices are forecast to gain 0.1 percent annually after
staying flat a month ago.

At 4.00 am ET, Spain's INE releases flash GDP data for the third
quarter. The economy is expected to expand 13.5 percent sequentially,
reversing a 17.8 percent fall in the second quarter.

At 6.00 am ET, Eurostat is slated to issue euro area flash quarterly
national accounts, consumer prices and unemployment data. The currency
bloc is forecast to grow 9.4 percent sequentially in the third quarter,
in contrast to an 11.8 percent fall in the second quarter.

Eurozone consumer prices are forecast to drop 0.3 percent annually in
October, the same pace of fall as seen in September. The jobless rate is
expected to rise to 8.3 percent in September from 8.1 percent in August.

In the meantime, Italy's preliminary consumer price data is due.
Consumer prices are forecast to fall 0.4 percent annually in October
after easing 0.6 percent in September.

At 7.00 am ET, Italy's Istat publishes GDP figures for the third
quarter. GDP is expected to expand 11.2 percent on quarter versus a 13
percent drop in the second quarter.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx