+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-04-05"
description = "Eurozone Private Sector Maintains Growth Momentum"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone Private Sector Maintains Growth Momentum"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The eurozone [economy][1] maintained growth momentum in March with the
easing of COVID-19 restrictions, final survey results from S&P Global
showed on Tuesday.

The final composite output index posted 54.9 in March, a slight decline
from 55.5 in February. The flash reading was 54.5.

The main impetus to the expansion was provided by the service sector,
where growth edged slightly higher. Manufacturing production expanded in
March, although the expansion was the weakest seen over the current
21-month sequence of increases.

The services Purchasing Managers' Index rose slightly to 55.6 from 55.5
a month ago and was above the flash reading of 54.8.

Chris Williamson, chief [business][2] economist at S&P Global cautioned
that the resilience of the economy will be tested in the coming months
by headwinds which include a further spike in energy costs and other
commodity prices due to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, as well as
worsening supply chain issues.

The survey showed that new orders increased at a solid rate in March,
although new business from export [markets][3] deteriorated as the war
in Ukraine reportedly impacted cross-border trade.

Employment levels continued to increase across the currency bloc.
Moreover, the rate of jobs growth accelerated slightly to a four-month
high.

Meanwhile, business confidence took a significant hit, slumping to a
17-month low as rising geopolitical tensions and inflation weighed on
the outlook.

Amid surging energy, fuel and commodity prices, input cost inflation
accelerated to a survey record high. To combat margin pressures,
companies raised their charges to the quickest extent on record.

Among big-four economies, a faster expansion was recorded only in
France. Business activity increased to softer extents in Germany, Spain
and Italy.

France's private sector expanded at the strongest pace since last July.
The composite output index advanced to 56.3 in March, up from 55.5 in
February and the flash score of 56.2.

The services PMI improved to 57.4 from 55.5 in the prior month. The
flash score was 57.4.

Although Germany's output growth remained firm in March, war in Ukraine
and surging prices weighed on expectations. The final composite PMI
dropped to 55.1 from 55.6 in February. The flash reading was 54.6.

The services PMI came in at 56.1, down from 55.8 in the prior month. The
score remained above the flash 55.0.

Driven by the slowdown in both the manufacturing and service sectors
during March, Spain's composite output index dropped to 53.1 from 56.5
in February. The services PMI came in at 53.4 in March, down from 56.6
in the previous month.

The Italy composite output index posted 52.1 in March, down from 53.6 in
February. Growth was broad-based at the sector level, although both
goods producers and services firms registered slower rates of expansion.
At 52.1, the services PMI was down from 52.8 in February.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][4] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][4]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][5], [unemployment rate][6], [inflation][7] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Markets.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   7. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx