+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-08"
description = "India Central Bank Keeps Rates Unchanged As Expected"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "India Central Bank Keeps Rates Unchanged As Expected"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

India's central bank decided to leave its key interest rate unchanged at
a record low and to stop further purchase of government securities from
the secondary market.

The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Shaktikanta Das,
unanimously voted to hold the key repo rate at 4.0 percent, the Reserve
Bank of India said in a statement on Friday. The decision was in line
with expectations.

The reverse repo rate was left unchanged at 3.35 percent and the
marginal standing facility rate and the Bank Rate at 4.25 percent.

By a majority of 5 to 1, the MPC voted to retain the accommodative
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) stance.

The MPC said it will continue with the accommodative stance as long as
necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis and continue
to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the [economy][1], while ensuring
that inflation remains within the target going forward.

Das said the secondary market G-Sec Acquisition Programme, or G-SAP, has
been successful in addressing market concerns. The need for undertaking
further G-SAP operations at this juncture does not arise.

The Reserve Bank, however, would remain in readiness to undertake G-SAP
as and when warranted by liquidity conditions, the governor said.

The RBI observed that aggregate demand is improving but slack still
remains. Output is still below pre-pandemic level and the recovery
remains uneven and dependent upon continued [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) support.

The central bank retained the projection for real GDP growth for the
financial year 2021-22 at 9.5 percent. For 2022-23, the growth is
forecast to slow to 7.8 percent.

While the near-term prospects are bolstered by the lower base of last
year, the outlook is contingent on the evolving COVID-19 trajectory, the
bank noted.

According to RBI, the headline consumer price momentum is moderating
which, combined with favorable base effects in the coming months, could
bring about a substantial softening in inflation in the near-term.

Inflation outlook for 2021-22 was lowered to 5.3 percent from 5.7
percent.

"Given our view that the recovery will only be back on more solid
footing next year, we continue to think that rate hikes are still a long
way off," Darren Aw, an economist at Capital Economics, said.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/retail-sales/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx