+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-25"
description = "German Consumer Confidence Weakens More Than Expected"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "German Consumer Confidence Weakens More Than Expected"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Germany's consumer confidence is set to deteriorate at a faster than
expected rate in December as households turned more cautious amid the
fourth wave of [coronavirus][1] and high inflation, results of a survey
showed Thursday.

The forward-looking consumer confidence index fell to a six-month low of
-1.6 from 1.0 in November, which was revised from 0.9, the market
research growth GfK said. Economists had forecast -0.5 reading.

Consumer sentiment weakened after rising for two months in a row. The
latest reading is the lowest since June, when it was -6.9 points.

The latest GfK survey was conducted from November 4 to 15.

GfK consumer expert Rolf Burkl said consumer sentiment is currently
being squeezed from two sides.

"On the one hand, the number of cases in the fourth wave of the
coronavirus pandemic is exploding, which threatens to overwhelm the
[health][2] system and could lead to further restrictions," Burkl said.  
  
"On the other hand, the purchasing power of consumers is dwindling due
to a high inflation rate of four percent."  
  
"The outlook for the upcoming Christmas season is now somewhat bleak,"
the GfK expert added.  
  
The index for economic expectations dropped for a second successive
month, falling by 15.6 point to 31.  
  
Germany's recovery is beginning to falter, mainly due to supply
bottlenecks, and the growth forecast for this year has been revised down
to 2.7 percent.  
  
A shortage of semiconductors for consumer electronics, household
appliances and motor vehicles has led to a reduction or even complete
halt to production, which is affecting economic growth, GfK noted.  
  
The income expectation indicator fell further in November, by 10.4
points to 12.9 points, the lowest since April this year. The latest
decline was less severe than in October when the index dropped more than
14 points.

GfK noted that income expectations are being influenced by high
inflation and an associated reduction in the purchasing power of income
as well as by production restrictions caused by interruptions in supply
chains that increase the fear of short-time work.

As income and economic expectations eroded, the propensity to buy
indicator fell by 9.7 points to reach 9.7, the weakest score since
February.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][3]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][4] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][4]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][5], [unemployment rate][6], [inflation][7] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Health.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   7. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx