+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-07"
description = "EU Sees Deeper Recession On Severe Impact From Covid-19"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EU Sees Deeper Recession On Severe Impact From Covid-19"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Eurozone is set to undergo an even deeper recession due to the
[coronavirus][1] pandemic despite measures taken at both EU and national
levels, the European Commission said in its Summer Forecast released
Tuesday.

The currency bloc is forecast to contract 8.7 percent in 2020 instead of
7.7 percent projected in the Spring Forecast. Nonetheless, the region is
forecast to grow 6.1 percent in 2021, which was slightly less robust
than the 6.3 percent expansion projected previously.

As the scale and duration of the pandemic remains unknown, the risks to
the forecast are exceptionally high and mainly to the downside. The
forecast assumes that lockdown measures will continue to ease and there
will not be a 'second wave' of infections.

We continue to navigate in stormy waters and face many risks, including
another major wave of infections," Valdis Dombrovskis, Executive Vice-
President for an Economy that works for People, said.

"Looking forward to this year and next, we can expect a rebound but we
will need to be vigilant about the differing pace of the recovery,"
Dombrovskis added.

The inflation outlook has not changed substantially since spring.
Inflation is seen at 0.3 percent in 2020 compared to the previous
outlook of 0.2 percent. The forecast for 2021 was left unrevised at 1.1
percent.

Among the largest euro area countries, above-average GDP contractions
were reported in France, Italy and Spain, while Germany and the
Netherlands saw smaller hits.

Germany's real GDP was forecast to decline in 2020, largely in line with
the spring forecast, by 6.3 percent. Starting the recovery in the second
half of this year, the [economy][2] will grow 5.3 percent in 2021, EU
said.

Spain's annual GDP growth in 2020 was forecast at 10.9 percent, about
1.5 percentage points lower than projected in spring. GDP growth for
2021 was broadly unchanged from the previous forecast, at 7.1 percent.

France's GDP was projected to shrink 10.6 percent this year. The
economic recovery is set to remain on track in 2021, with GDP expanding
by 7.6 percent.

Italy real GDP forecast to fall by 11.2 percent this year but to grow
6.1 percent in 2021. However, real GDP is not expected to return to its
2019 level by the end of 2021.

UK GDP was forecast to fall by about 9.75 percent in 2020 and to grow by
6 percent in 2021. Projections for 2021 were based on a purely technical
assumption of status quo in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of trading relations between the EU
and the UK.

The EU region is forecast to shrink 8.3 percent this year but to grow
5.8 percent next year. The rate for 2020 was revised from -7.4 percent
and that for 2021 from 6.1 percent.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx