+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-23"
description = "German Private Sector Growth Slows Sharply In September"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "German Private Sector Growth Slows Sharply In September"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Germany's manufacturing sector expanded at the slowest pace in eight
months in September, due to ongoing supply disruptions and rising
prices, while the service sector growth lost steam after a strong
rebound as economic activity recovered after the Covid-19 pandemic,
results of a survey showed Thursday.

The flash purchasing managers' index for the factory sector fell to 58.5
from 62.6 in August, preliminary results of the latest Purchasing
Mangers' survey by IHS Markit showed. Economists had forecast a score of
61.5.  
  
The manufacturing output index dropped to a 15-month low of 53.8 in
September, thanks to supply bottlenecks that damped demand.  
  
Orders grew at the weakest pace since July last year. Semiconductor
shortages led to lower demand from the automotive sector.  
  
The flash services PMI dropped to a four-month low of 56.0 from 60.8 in
August. Economists had predicted a reading of 60.2.

The flash composite PMI, which combines manufacturing and services, fell
to a seven-month low of 55.3 from 60.0 in the previous month. Economists
had expected a score of 59.2.  
  
In the third quarter, the composite PMI averaged 59.2 versus 57.4 in the
three months to June. The latest reading was the highest in ten-
and-a-half years.  
  
Overall new [business][1] growth was the weakest since April with
foreign business registering the slowest growth thus far this year.

The survey data was collected from September 13 to 22.  
  
Continued pressure from energy, material, labor and transportation costs
kept both input and output price inflation near record high levels,
despite some easing. Overall input price inflation slowed to a four-
month low.

Output price inflation accelerated in the manufacturing, while it eased
to a four-month low in the services sector.

Business confidence was damped by concerns over supply chains and rising
inflationary pressures and hit its low since December last year.
Backlogs of work increased sharply in the manufacturing sector.  
  
Meanwhile, private sector employment grew for a ninth month in a row,
but the rate of increase slowed for a second straight month in both
manufacturing and services. Overall jobs growth was the smallest since
May.  
  
"September's flash PMI survey showed a notable slowdown in the rate of
growth of the German [economy][2], in a sign that activity is beginning
to level off after rebounding sharply over the summer," IHS Markit
Associate Director Phil Smith said.

"However, despite the slowdown in September, the pace of economic growth
in the third quarter still looks to have surpassed the 1.6 percent
expansion seen in the three months to June."

Final figures for the September survey are set to be published on
October 1 for manufacturing, and on October 5 for services and composite
indicators.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx