+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-06"
description = "Germany's Factory Orders Growth Exceeds Expectations"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Germany's Factory Orders Growth Exceeds Expectations"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Germany's factory orders grew more than expected in June on strong
domestic demand as consumption benefited from the easing of lockdown
measures, data from Destatis showed Thursday.

Orders advanced 27.9 percent on a monthly basis in June, faster than the
10.4 percent increase seen in May and much bigger than economists'
forecast of 10.1 percent rise.  
  
New orders expanded for the second straight month in June after three
months of declines due to the [coronavirus][1] related lockdown.

Domestic orders advanced 35.3 percent and foreign orders climbed 22
percent in June from the previous month. Demand from the euro area was
up 22.3 percent and that from other countries gained 21.7 percent.

After the first upturn in May, the recovery in new orders in
manufacturing took a big step forward in June, the [economy][2] ministry
said.

Orders from abroad are lagging behind the development in Germany. This
shows why the further recovery process will proceed more slowly, the
ministry added.

The only limiting factor is that order books had already been in a long
shrinking process for two years prior to the crisis, Carsten Brzeski, an
ING economist said. These structural issues will not disappear
overnight, but today's numbers suggest that the industry could catch up
with the momentum in the rest of the economy.

Manufacturers of intermediate goods reported a 10.6 percent increase in
new orders. Orders for capital goods surged 45.7 percent and that for
consumer goods gained 1.1 percent.

Demand in the automotive industry grew markedly by 66.5 percent from the
previous month. Still, this was 12.2 percent lower than in February
2020.

Excluding major orders, new orders in manufacturing were 23.8 percent
higher than in the previous month.

On a yearly basis, factory orders declined 11.3 percent in June,
following a 29.3 percent decrease in May.

Data showed that turnover in manufacturing logged a monthly growth of
12.5 percent versus a 9.7 percent increase in May.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/retail-sales/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx