+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-08"
description = "U.S. Employment Nosedives By Record 20.5 Million Jobs In April"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. Employment Nosedives By Record 20.5 Million Jobs In April"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Reflecting the effects of the [coronavirus][1] pandemic and efforts to
contain it, the Labor Department released a report on Friday showing a
record nosedive in employment in the U.S. in the month of April.

The report said non-farm payroll employment plummeted by 20.5 million
jobs in April after tumbling by a revised 870,000 jobs in March.

The steep drop in employment was not as bad as feared, however, as
economists had expected employment to plunge by 22.0 million jobs
compared to the loss of 701,000 jobs originally reported for the
previous month.

Nonetheless, the Labor Department said the unemployment rate still
skyrocketed to a post-World War II record high of 14.7 percent in April
from 4.4 percent in March. Economists had expected the unemployment rate
to spike to 14.0 percent.

Paul Ashworth, Chief U.S. Economist at Capital Economics, said the
unemployment rate would have been even higher, but the Bureau of Labor
Statistics is still having problems with misclassifying absent workers
who should have been recorded as on temporary layoff.

"Without that distortion, the unemployment rate would have been close to
20% last month," Ashworth said.

The record drop in employment reflected sharp jobless losses in all
major industry sectors, with particularly heavy job losses in leisure
and hospitality.

Employment in the leisure and hospitality sector plummeted by nearly 7.7
million jobs, while employment in the education and [health][2] services
and retail sectors also plunged by 2.5 million jobs and 2.1 million
jobs, respectively.

The jump in the unemployment rate came as the household survey measure
of employment plummeted by 22.4 million persons, while the labor force
shrank by 6.4 million persons.

Meanwhile, the report said average hourly employee earnings surged up
$1.34 or 4.7 percent to $30.01 in April. Annual wage growth soared to
7.9 percent in April from 3.3 percent in March.

The Labor Department noted the spike in average hourly earnings largely
reflect the substantial job loss among lower-paid workers.

"Overall, this report lays bare the full extent of the human tragedy
stemming from the pandemic," Ashworth said.

He added, "While we are hopeful many will get back to work in the coming
months, there will be severe scarring effects on the labor market for
years to come."

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][3]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Health.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx