+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-20"
description = "Japan Core Machine Orders Climb 3.7% On Month In March"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Japan Core Machine Orders Climb 3.7% On Month In March"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The value of core machine orders in Japan advanced a seasonally adjusted
3.7 percent on month in March, the Cabinet Office said on Thursday -
standing at 798.1 billion yen.

That missed expectations for an increase of 6.4 percent following the
8.5 percent decline in February.

On a yearly basis, core machine orders fell 2.0 percent - beating
forecasts for a fall of 2.6 percent after sinking 7.1 percent a month
earlier.

The total value of machinery orders received by 280 manufacturers
operating in Japan plummeted 30.0 percent on month in March and slipped
4.6 percent on year.

Manufacturing orders were down 0.1 percent on month and up 2.9 percent
on year at 342.2 billion yen, while non-manufacturing orders jumped 9.5
percent on month and sank 4.9 percent on year at 463.0 billion yen.

Government orders rose 2.7 percent on month and fell 4.0 percent on year
at 264.1 billion yen, while orders from overseas plummeted 53.9 percent
on month and 0.1 percent on year at 832.5 billion yen. Orders through
agencies rose 3.2 percent on month and lost 2.4 percent on year at 108.1
billion yen.

For the first quarter of 2021. Core machine orders shed 5.3 percent on
quarter and 2.5 percent on year at 2,409.5 billion yen. Overall orders
gained 9.7 percent on quarter and 7.9 percent on year at 7,747.1 billion
yen.

For the second quarter of 2021, core machine orders are forecast to rise
2.5 percent on quarter and 10.5 percent on year at 2,470.3 billion yen.

Also on Thursday, the Ministry of Finance said that Japan posted a
merchandise trade surplus of 255.3 billion yen in April. That exceeded
expectations for a surplus of 140 billion following the downwardly
revised 662.2 billion yen surplus in March (originally 663.7 billion
yen).

Exports surged 38.0 percent on year to 7.181 trillion yen, beating
forecasts for a gain of 30.9 percent after climbing 16.1 percent in the
previous month.

Imports advanced an annual 12.8 percent to 6.925 trillion yen versus
expectations for a gain of 8.8 percent and up from 5.8 percent a month
earlier.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/retail-sales/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx