+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-03-07"
description = "UK House Price Inflation Strongest Since 2007: Halifax"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "UK House Price Inflation Strongest Since 2007: Halifax"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

UK house prices rose at the fastest annual pace since mid-2007 to a
record high in February, survey data from the Llyods Bank subsidiary
Halifax showed Monday.

The house price index rose 10.8 percent year-on-year, which was the
biggest increase since June 2007, when it was 11.9 percent. House prices
climbed 9.7 percent in each of the previous two months.

On a month-on-month basis, house prices rose 0.5 percent in February
after a 0.2 percent climb in January. Economists had forecast 1.0
percent increase. Prices rose for an eighth successive month.

The average house price set a new record high of GBP 278,123 versus GBP
276,645 in the previous month.

Average property values have now risen by GBP 38,709 or 16 percent since
February 2020, which is before the start of the Covid-19 pandemic,
Halifax said.

Over the last 12 months alone house prices gained on average GBP 27,215,
which is the biggest one-year cash rise recorded in over 39 years of
index [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/).

Russell Galley, managing director, Halifax, said the lack of supply
continues to underpin rising house prices, with recent industry surveys
showing a dearth of new properties being listed, now a long-term trend.

This may be a particular issue at the larger end of the property market,
Halifax said.

Geopolitical events such as the Russia-Ukraine war exposes the UK to new
sources of uncertainty, even as Covid seems to be moving into an endemic
phase and almost all domestic restrictions are removed, he added.

"The war in Ukraine is a human tragedy, but is also likely to have
effects on confidence, trade and global supply chains," Galley said.

"Surging oil and gas prices are one immediate consequence, meaning that
inflation in the UK - already at a 30-year peak - will remain higher for
longer."

Halifax expects high inflation to add to the squeeze on already
stretched household incomes and the extent of the rises in the Bank Rate
to depend on how it affects prices and companies' approaches to pay over
the months to come.

"These factors are likely to weigh on buyer demand as the year
progresses, with market activity likely to return to more normal levels
and an easing of house price growth to be expected," Galley said.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx