+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-04"
description = "U.S. Service Sector Index Jumps To All-Time High In July"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. Service Sector Index Jumps To All-Time High In July"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Growth in U.S. service sector activity accelerated by much more than
anticipated in the month of July, according to a report released by the
Institute for Supply Management on Wednesday.

The ISM said its services PMI jumped to an all-time high of 64.1 in July
after pulling back to 60.1 in June, with a reading above 50 indicating
growth in the sector. Economists had expected the index to inch up to
60.4.

The bigger than expected increase by the headline index came as the
[business][1] activity index surged up to 67.0 in July from 60.4 in
June.

The new orders index also climbed to 63.7 in July from 62.1 in June,
while the employment index rebounded to 53.8 in July from 49.3 in June.

"The Employment Index reflected growth, even though the constrained
labor pool continues to be an issue," said Anthony Nieves, Chair of the
ISM Services Business Survey Committee.

Nieves also noted materials shortages, inflation and logistics continue
to negatively impact the continuity of supply, with the supplier
deliveries index jumping to 72.0 in July from 68.5 in June. A reading of
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries.

The ISM said the prices index climbed to 82.3 in July from 79.5 in June,
reaching its second-highest reading ever, behind September 2005.

"While the Delta variant casts a dark cloud over the outlook, we still
expect services to continue recovering in H2 2021," said Oren Klachkin,
Lead US Economist at Oxford Economics. "Reopenings, higher vaccination
rates, and pandemic fatigue will keep demand for services on a positive
track."

"But operating capacity will remain Covid constrained, and supply side
challenges will ease only gradually," he added. "We believe the services
recovery would be derailed only if a severe spike in Covid cases forces
public officials to reinstitute harsh containment measures."

On Monday, the ISM released a separate report showing an unexpected
slowdown in the pace of growth in U.S. manufacturing activity in the
month of July.

The manufacturing PMI dipped to 59.5 in July from 60.6 in June. While a
reading above 50 still indicates growth in the manufacturing sector,
economists had expected the index to inch up to 60.9.

With the unexpected decrease, the manufacturing PMI pulled back further
off the 37-year high of 64.7 reached in March and fell to its lowest
level since hitting 58.7 in January.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/retail-sales/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx