+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-04-13"
description = "U.S. Producer Price Growth Accelerates To Record High In March"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. Producer Price Growth Accelerates To Record High In March"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

After yesterday's report showing a jump in U.S. consumer prices, the
Labor Department released a report on Wednesday showing U.S. producer
prices also surged in the month of March.

The Labor Department said its producer price index for final demand shot
up by 1.4 percent in March after advancing by an upwardly revised 0.9
percent in February.

Economists had expected producer prices to jump by 1.1 percent compared
to the 0.8 percent increase originally reported for the previous month.

Energy prices led the way higher, skyrocketing by 5.7 percent during the
month, while food prices also spiked by 2.4 percent.

With the bigger than expected monthly increase, the annual rate of
producer price growth accelerated to a record high 11.2 percent in March
from 10.3 percent in February.

"The severe imbalance between robust demand and handicapped supply will
persist throughout Q2, keeping producer price inflation sticky and
elevated until price pressures start to decelerate in the latter part of
2022," said Mahir Rasheed, U.S. Economist at Oxford Economics.

He added, "With a new wave of lockdowns in China and the war in Ukraine
raging on, however, risks to the inflation outlook remain firmly to the
upside, reaffirming our view that the Fed must proceed with a faster
pace of [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) normalization in the months ahead."

Excluding prices for food, energy and trade services, core producer
prices still climbed by 0.9 percent in March after edging up by 0.2
percent in February.

The annual rate of growth in core producer prices accelerated to 7.0
percent in March from 6.7 percent in the previous month.

The report showed prices for services advanced by 0.9 percent in March,
reflecting a 5.5 percent spike in prices for transportation and
warehousing services and a 1.2 percent jump in prices for trade
services.

As mentioned above, the Labor Department released a separate report on
Tuesday showing consumer prices jumped in the month of March amid a
spike in gasoline prices.

The Labor Department said its consumer price index surged by 1.2 percent
in March after climbing by 0.8 percent in February. The sharp increase
in consumer prices matched economist estimates.

The jump in consumer prices came as gasoline prices skyrocketed by 18.3
percent, accounting for over half of the monthly increase. Food prices
also shot up by 1.0 percent.

Meanwhile, the report showed core consumer prices, which exclude food
and energy prices, edged up by 0.3 percent in March after rising by 0.5
percent in February. Economists had expected another 0.5 percent
increase.

The uptick in core prices reflected an increase in prices for shelter
along with higher prices for airline fares, household furnishings and
operations, medical care, and motor vehicle insurance.

The annual rate of consumer price growth accelerated to 8.5 percent in
March from 7.9 percent in February, showing the fastest growth since
December 1981.

Core consumer prices were up 6.5 percent year-over-year in March,
reflecting an uptick from the 6.4 percent jump in February. The annual
growth represents the biggest increase since August 1982.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx