+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-12-07"
description = "UK House Prices Climb For Fifth Month: Halifax"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "UK House Prices Climb For Fifth Month: Halifax"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

UK house prices rose for fifth straight month and the average home price
hit a fresh record high in November, reflecting the resilience of the
housing market, survey results from the Lloyds Bank subsidiary Halifax
and IHS Markit showed Tuesday.

The house price index rose 8.2 percent year-on-year, same as in October,
which was the highest rate since June.

Compared to the previous month, house prices rose 1.0 percent in
November, same as in October. Economists had forecast a 0.8 percent
increase.

"The performance of the market continues to be underpinned by a shortage
of available properties, a strong labor market and keen competition
amongst mortgage providers keeping rates close to historic lows,"
Halifax Managing Director Russell Galley said.

The quarterly increase in the house price index hit a 15-year high in
November. The quarterly figure accelerated to 3.4 percent from 2.3
percent in October.

Further, the average UK property price hit a new record high of GBP
272,992 in November versus GBP 270,184 in the previous month.

The typical value was up by almost GBP 13,000 since June, and more than
GBP 20,000 since this time last year, Halifax said.

Since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020, and the UK first
entering lockdown, house prices have risen by GBP 33,816, which equates
to GBP 1,691 per month, the survey added.

Annual house price inflation for first-time buyers was 9.1 percent in
November versus 8.8 percent for home-movers.

Halifax also found diverging patterns in house price growth across
different property types. House price inflation for flats was in double-
digits at 10.8 percent over the last year versus 6.6 percent for
detached properties.

The difference could mean that the 'race for space' is becoming less
prominent than it was earlier in the pandemic, with industry data also
showing the overall number of completed transactions has fallen back
since the end of the Stamp Duty holiday, Halifax said.

"Looking ahead, there is now greater uncertainty than has been the case
for quite some time, with interest rates expected to rise to guard
against further increases in inflation," Galley said.

"Economic confidence may be also be dented by the emergence of the new
Omicron virus variant, though it remains far too early to speculate on
any long-term impact, given insufficient data at this stage, not to
mention the resilience the housing market has already shown in
challenging circumstances."

Excluding the risk of a resurgence in the pandemic, Halifax said it was
unlikely that the current level of house price growth would be sustained
next year as house price to income ratios are already [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/)ly high,
and household budgets are likely to come under greater pressure in the
coming months.

Across regions, Wales remained the strongest performing region with
annual house price inflation of 14.8 percent and the average house price
breached the GBP 200,000 mark for the first time in [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/).

The average price for a Welsh home was GBP 204,148 in November.

Northern Ireland and Scotland also witnessed continued rise in house
prices with the former logging a double-digit increase.

Meanwhile, the capital London continued to lag the rest of UK with an
annual inflation of 1.1 percent in house prices. That said, the average
price of GBP 521,129 meant London homes remained much more expensive
than those in the rest of the country.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx