+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-22"
description = "UK Q3 Record GDP Growth Exceeds Estimate"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "UK Q3 Record GDP Growth Exceeds Estimate"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The UK [economy][1] rebounded at a faster than estimated pace in the
third quarter, reflecting the effects of the easing of lockdown
restrictions and also some recovery of activity from the steep
contraction in April, the Office for National Statistics said Tuesday.

Gross domestic product grew by a record 16 percent sequentially instead
of 15.5 percent expansion estimated previously. GDP had fallen by
revised 18.8 percent in the second quarter.

Although this reflects some recovery of activity following the record
contraction in the second quarter, GDP was 8.6 percent below where it
was at the end of 2019.

The annual fall in GDP was revised to 8.6 percent from 9.6 percent in
the third quarter.

Data showed that the cumulative fall in GDP in the first half of 2020
was 21.2 percent compared with the previous estimate of a 21.8 percent
cumulative fall.

While a double-dip recession is a clear possibility if the Tier 4
Covid-19 restrictions are extended into 2021, the third quarter's high
saving rate provides optimism that as long as vaccines are effective and
widespread, GDP will stage a strong rebound in the second half of next
year, Ruth Gregory, an economist at Capital Economics, said.

The households' saving ratio came in at 16.9 percent compared with 27.4
percent in the second quarter.

The quarterly increases in services, production and construction output
in were the largest on record in the third quarter.

Services output grew by a revised 14.7 percent and production output
advanced by a revised 14.7 percent, and construction output surged by a
revised 41.2 percent.

The expenditure-side breakdown showed that the recovery in private
consumption, government spending and gross capital formation was in line
with the easing of public [health][2] restrictions.

Household consumption increased by 19.5 percent driven by higher
spending on restaurants and hotels, and transport. Due to higher
spending on health and education, government consumption advanced 10.4
percent.

Gross fixed capital formation increased by revised 17.9 percent and
[business][3] investment grew 9.4 percent.

The UK posted a trade surplus of 0.2 percent of nominal GDP, which was a
downward revision from the first estimate of a trade surplus of 0.9
percent of GDP.

In November, the budget deficit excluding public sector banks rose to
the third highest level since records began in 1993, the ONS said in a
separate communiqu√©.

Public sector net borrowing excluding banks widened by GBP 26 billion
from the last year to GBP 31.6 billion in November. This was the highest
November borrowing and the third-highest borrowing in any month since
monthly records began in 1993.

During April to November, public sector net borrowing surged GBP 188.6
billion to GBP 240.9 billion, the highest borrowing in any April to
November period since records began in 1993.

Another report from the ONS showed that the underlying current account
deficit excluding non-monetary gold and other precious metals narrowed
to GBP15.6 billion, or 2.9 percent of gross domestic product in the
third quarter.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][4] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][4]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][5], [unemployment rate][6], [inflation][4] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Health.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx