+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-28"
description = "South Korea Industrial Output Dips 0.7% In August"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "South Korea Industrial Output Dips 0.7% In August"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Industrial output in South Korea fell a seasonally adjusted 0.7 percent
on month in August, Statistics Korea said on Tuesday - beating forecasts
for a decline of 1.5 percent following the 1.6 percent increase in July.

On a yearly basis, industrial production sank 3.0 percent - missing
expectations for a fall of 2.8 percent following the 2.5 percent drop in
the previous month.

The index of all industry production was down 0.9 percent on month and
3.4 percent on year after adding 0.1 percent on month and losing 1.5
percent on year in July.

The Manufacturing Production Index fell 1.0 percent on month and 3.1
percent on year, while the Manufacturing Shipment Index lost 1.4 percent
on month and 7.2 percent on year. The Manufacturing Inventory Index
added 2.1 percent on month and 3.6 percent on year.

The Production Capacity Index rose 0.2 percent on month and 1.6 percent
on year. The Index of Capacity Utilization Rate slid 0.6 percent on
month and 7.1 percent on year.

The Manufacturing Average Capacity Utilization Rate in August marked
69.6 percent, down 0.5 percentage points from the previous month. The
Index of Services shed 1.0 percent on month and 3.7 percent on year. The
Retail Sales Index gained 3.0 percent on month and 0.3 percent on year.

The Equipment Investment Index sank 4.4 percent on month and 1.8 percent
on year. The Domestic Machinery Shipment Index slid 0.5 percent on year.
The value of Domestic Machinery Orders Received in August increased 0.5
percent on year.

The value of construction completed at constant prices dropped 7.1
percent on month and 9.4 percent on year. The value of construction
orders received at current prices surged an annual 37.2 percent.

The Composite Coincident Index in August rose 0.5 percent on month. The
Cyclical Component of Composite Coincident Index, which reflects current
economic situations, gained 0.4 points from the previous month.

The Composite Leading Index in August increased by 0.9 percent from the
previous month. The Cyclical Component of Composite Leading Index, which
predicts the turning point in [business][1] cycle, increased by 0.6
points from July.

The stats bureau also said that construction output sank 9.4 percent on
year in August after easing 0.6 percent in July.

Retail sales were up 3.0 percent on month and 0.3 percent on year in
August after sinking 6.0 percent on month and gaining 0.5 percent on
year in July.

Also on Tuesday, the Bank of Korea said that business sentiment improved
slightly in September after its Business Survey Index came in with a
score of 68.

That's up 2 points from the previous month, but the outlook for the
following month remained unchanged at 68.

After seasonal adjustment, the BSI for September 2020 was 68, unchanged
from August 2020, but that for the outlook for the following month also
rose by 2 points to 70.

In the non-manufacturing sector, the BSI on business conditions for
September 2020 was 62, down 4 points from the previous month, and that
for the outlook for the following month also fell by 7 points to 62.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx