+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-03-02"
description = "South Korea Industrial Production Gains 0.2% In January"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "South Korea Industrial Production Gains 0.2% In January"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Industrial output in South Korea was up a seasonally adjusted 0.2
percent on month in January, Statistics Korea said on Wednesday.

That exceeded expectations for a decline of 0.6 percent following the
downwardly revised 3.7 percent gain in December (originally 4.3
percent).

On a yearly basis, industrial production gained 4.3 percent, which
missed forecasts for a gain of 6.5 percent and was down from the
upwardly revised 7.4 percent jump in the previous month (originally 6.2
percent).

The Index of all industry production in January fell 0.3 percent on
month and increased by 4.3 percent on year. The Manufacturing Production
Index rose 0.1 percent on month and 4.4 percent on year.

The Manufacturing Shipment Index added 0.4 percent on month and 1.6
percent on year. The Manufacturing Inventory Index dipped 0.1 percent on
month but spiked 12.0 percent on year.

The Production Capacity Index shed 0.8 percent on month and 0.9 percent
on year. The Index of Capacity Utilization Rate gained 1.0 percent on
month and 3.8 percent on year.

The Manufacturing Average Capacity Utilization Rate was 78.3 percent, up
0.7 percentage points from the previous month. The Index of Services
dipped 0.3 percent on month but gained 4.8 percent on year.

The Retail Sales Index in January sank 1.9 percent on month but gained
4.5 percent on year. The Equipment Investment Index gained 2.5 percent
on month and 0.6 percent on year.

The Domestic Machinery Shipment Index in January jumped 2.3 percent on
year. The value of Domestic Machinery Orders Received spiked 11.6
percent on year.

The value of Construction Completed at constant prices increased by 0.5
percent on month and 6.8 percent on year. The value of Construction
Orders Received at current prices increased by 6.0 percent on year.

The Composite Coincident Index in January increased by 0.8 percent on
month. The Cyclical Component of Composite Coincident Index, which
reflects current economic situations, increased by 0.6 points from the
previous month.

The Composite Leading Index in January increased by 0.2 percent on
month. The Cyclical Component of Composite Leading Index, which predicts
the turning point in [business][1] cycle, fell 0.1 points from the
previous month.

Also on Wednesday, Statistics Korea said that the total value of retail
sales in South Korea was down a seasonally adjusted 1.9 percent on month
in January. That missed expectations for a gain of 0.5 percent following
the 2.0 percent increase in December.

On a yearly basis, retail sales advanced 4.5 percent - again shy of
forecasts for an increase of 5 percent and slowing from 6.5 percent in
the previous month.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx