+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-23"
description = "Singapore Gross Domestic Product Expands 9.2% In Q3"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Singapore Gross Domestic Product Expands 9.2% In Q3"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Singapore's gross domestic product climbed a seasonally adjusted 9.2
percent on quarter in the third quarter of 2020, the Ministry of Trade
and Industry said in Monday's final reading.

That was an upward revision from last month's preliminary reading of 7.9
percent following the 13.2 percent drop in the three months prior.

On a yearly basis, GDP was revised up to -5.8 percent from the
preliminary reading of 7.0 percent following the 13.3 percent drop in
the previous three months.

Upon the release of the data, the MTI said its GDP forecast for 2020 is
-6.0 to -6.5 percent, while 2021 is pegged at 4.0 to 6.0 percent.

The improved performance of the Singapore [economy][1] came on the back
of the phased resumption of activities in the third quarter following
the Circuit Breaker that was implemented from April 7 to June 1, as well
as the rebound in activity in major economies during the quarter as they
emerged from their lockdowns.

By sectors, the manufacturing sector expanded 10.0 percent on year,
reversing the 0.8 percent decline in the preceding quarter. The
expansion was largely due to output growth in the electronics,
biomedical manufacturing and precision engineering clusters. On a
quarterly basis, the manufacturing sector grew 12.1 percent, rebounding
from the 9.1 percent contraction in the previous quarter.

The construction sector shrank 46.6 percent on year, extending the 60.0
percent contraction in the preceding quarter, due to declines in both
public sector and private sector construction works. On a quarterly
basis, the sector grew 34.5 percent, a reversal from the 59.5 percent
decline in Q2.

The wholesale and retail trade sector contracted 4.3 percent on year,
easing from the 6.7 percent contraction in the previous quarter. Within
the sector, the wholesale trade segment shrank primarily due to weakness
in the fuel and chemicals and machinery, equipment and supplies sub-
segments. Retail trade also contracted due to a decline in non-motor
vehicular sales. On a quarterly basis, the sector expanded 2.3 percent,
reversing the 1.8 percent contraction in the preceding quarter.

The transportation and storage sector fell 29.6 percent on year compared
to the 39.2 percent decline in the second quarter. The air transport
segment was weighed down by the continued slump in air passengers
handled at Changi Airport due to ongoing global travel restrictions and
sluggish air travel demand, while the water transport segment contracted
because of a fall in sea cargo volume handled and container throughput.
On a quarterly basis, the sector expanded 15.0 percent, a reversal from
the 33.7 percent contraction in the previous quarter.

The accommodation and food services sector contracted 24.0 percent on
year, improving from the 41.8 percent contraction in the preceding
quarter. The accommodation segment shrank due to the continued plunge in
international visitor arrivals, while the food services segment
contracted as sales volumes across all sub-segments such as restaurants
declined. On a quarterly basis, the sector grew 32.4 percent, rebounding
from the 23.3 percent decline in Q2.

The information and communications sector expanded 2.0 percent on year,
a turnaround from the 0.8 percent contraction in the previous quarter.
Growth was largely driven by the IT and information services segment,
which benefitted from resilient demand for enterprise IT solutions. On a
quarterly basis, the sector grew 5.2 percent, reversing the 2.6 percent
contraction in Q2.

Growth in the finance and insurance sector came in at 3.2 percent on
year, higher than the 2.7 percent in the second quarter, supported by
healthy expansions in the banking and insurance segments. On a quarterly
basis, the sector added 0.1 percent, an improvement from the 2.0 percent
contraction in the previous quarter.

The [business][2] services sector shrank 15.2 percent on year, extending
the 20.6 percent contraction in the second quarter. The real estate
segment contracted due to weakness in the commercial and industrial
property space markets amidst the economic downturn, while the others
shrank as tourism-related sub-segments were adversely affected by
ongoing global travel restrictions. On a quarterly basis, the business
services sector grew 7.0 percent, a reversal from the 17.9 percent
decline in the preceding quarter.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx