+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-30"
description = "European Economics Preview: Germany GDP, Unemployment Data Due"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "European Economics Preview: Germany GDP, Unemployment Data Due"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Quarterly national accounts, flash inflation and unemployment reports
are due from Germany on Thursday, headlining a busy day for the European
economic [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).

At 2.45 am ET, France's statistical office Insee releases producer
prices for June.

At 3.00 am ET, Austria's preliminary GDP data is due. The [economy][1]
is forecast to shrink 11.8 percent sequentially in the second quarter.

In the meantime, preliminary consumer price data from Spain and economic
confidence from Turkey are due.

At 3.55 am ET, the Federal Employment Agency is set to release
unemployment data for July. Germany's jobless rate is expected to rise
marginally to 6.5 percent from 6.4 percent in June.

At 4.00 am ET, Destatis is slated to issue Germany's quarterly GDP data.
Economists forecast the largest euro area economy to shrink 9 percent
sequentially in the second quarter, following a 2.2 percent drop in the
preceding period.

Also, Italy's monthly unemployment data is due at 4.00 am ET. Economists
forecast the jobless rate to rise to 8.6 percent in June from 7.8
percent in May.

At 5.00 am ET, Eurozone economic sentiment survey results are due. The
economic confidence index is forecast to rise to 81 in July from 75.7 in
the previous month.  
  
In the meantime, Eurostat is set to release euro area unemployment data
for June. The jobless rate is forecast to rise to 7.7 percent in June
from 7.4 percent in May.

At 8.00 am ET, Germany's flash consumer price data is due. Inflation is
expected to ease to 0.2 percent in July from 0.9 percent in June.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][2]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx