+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-30"
description = "Eurozone Economic Confidence Improves To 4-Month High"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone Economic Confidence Improves To 4-Month High"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Eurozone economic confidence improved to a four-month high in July as
sentiment in industrial and service sectors strengthened amid the
relaxation of [coronavirus][1] containment measures, survey data showed
Thursday.

Elsewhere, official data revealed that the unemployment rate increased
in June although member countries started to phase out stringent steps
taken to curb the spread of Covid-19.

The economic sentiment index climbed to 82.3 in July from 75.8 in the
previous month, survey data from European Commission showed. The score
was forecast to rise to 81.0.

Although sentiment strengthened further, it remained well-below the pre-
virus levels and points to GDP contracting by 2 percent year-on-year at
the start of the third quarter, Jason Tuvey, an economist at Capital
Economics, said.

According to the survey, the recovery was driven by sharp confidence
increases in industry, services, and retail trade. By contrast,
confidence worsened slightly in construction and among consumers.

Industrial sentiment continued the previous two months' strong recovery,
driven by marked improvements in managers' production expectations,
appraisals of the adequacy of stocks of finished products, and the
current level of overall order books.

The industrial confidence index came in at -16.2 versus -21.6 a month
ago. The reading was forecast to rise to -17.0.

The services sentiment index rose to -26.1 from -35.5 in June. The sharp
increase was driven by managers' more optimistic views on the past
[business][2] situation, past demand, and expected demand.

The consumer confidence index fell to -15.0 in July, in line with flash
estimate, from -14.7 a month ago.

A marked decrease in consumers' assessment of their households' past
financial conditions was offset by moderate increases in expectations
concerning households' financial conditions and their intentions to make
major purchases.

The confidence among retailers improved to -15.3 from -19.4 a month ago.
More positive assessment of the present and future business situation
and the adequacy of the volume of stocks lifted the sentiment.

Meanwhile, the confidence index for construction fell to -12.6 from
-11.6. The slight decrease was due to managers' more pessimistic
employment expectations.

A more than expected improvement in economic confidence confirmed a
V-shaped recovery, Peter Vanden Houte, an ING economist, said. But with
the consumer still hesitant and the number of new Covid-19 infections
picking up again, the growth pattern might turn out to be more patchy in
the coming months, he noted.

Data from Eurostat showed that the euro area unemployment rate rose to
7.8 percent in June from 7.7 percent in May. The rate was forecast to
remain unchanged at 7.7 percent.

The number of unemployed increased by 203,000 from the previous month to
12.685 million in June.

The unemployment rate among youth aged below 25 rose to 17 percent in
June from 16.5 percent in May.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][2]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx