+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-30"
description = "U.S. Economy Contracts At Record Pace In Second Quarter"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. Economy Contracts At Record Pace In Second Quarter"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Reflecting the impact of the [coronavirus][1] pandemic, the Commerce
Department released a report on Thursday showing a record contraction in
U.S. economic activity in the second quarter.

The report said real gross domestic product plummeted at an annual rate
of 32.9 percent in the second quarter following a 5.0 percent slump in
the first quarter.

While GDP showed the biggest quarterly drop on record, the plunge was
not quite as steep as the 34.1 percent nosedive expected by economists.

Consumer spending led the decrease, cratering by 34.6 percent in the
second quarter, as the coronavirus-induced lockdowns in late March and
April forced many consumers to stay at home.

The record contraction in GDP also reflected decreases in exports,
private inventory investment, non-residential fixed investment,
residential fixed investment, and state and local government spending.

The Commerce Department said the 64.1 percent nosedive in exports was
led by capital goods, while the slump in private inventory investment
primarily reflected a decrease in retail, particularly motor vehicle
dealers.

The drop in non-residential fixed investment primarily reflected a
decrease in equipment, while the decline in residential investment
primarily reflected a decrease in new single-family housing.

Meanwhile, the report said federal government spending skyrocketed by
17.4 percent, reflecting the implementation of the coronavirus relief
bills.

"We already know that activity rebounded strongly in May and June,
setting the stage for a strong rise in GDP in the third quarter," said
Andrew Hunter, Senior U.S. Economist at Capital Economics.

He added, "Nevertheless, with the more recent resurgence in virus cases
starting to weigh on the [economy][2] in July, a continued 'V-shaped'
recovery is unlikely."

On the inflation front, the Commerce Department said the core PCE price
index, which excludes food and energy prices, decreased by 1.1 percent
in the second quarter in contrast to an increase of 1.6 percent in the
first quarter.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/retail-sales/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx