+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-30"
description = "European Economics Preview: Eurozone Consumer Price Data Due"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "European Economics Preview: Eurozone Consumer Price Data Due"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Consumer prices from euro area, unemployment and retail sales from
Germany are due on Wednesday, headlining a busy day for the European
economic [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).

At 2.00 am ET, the Office for National Statistics releases revised UK
GDP data for the second quarter. The [economy][1] is forecast to shrink
20.4 percent sequentially, as initially estimated.

In the meantime, UK Nationwide house price data is due. Economists
forecast house prices to rise 4.5 percent on year in September, faster
than the 3.7 percent increase in August.

Also, Destatis releases Germany's retail sales, unemployment and import
prices figures. Retail sales are forecast to gain 0.4 percent on month
in August, in contrast to a 0.9 percent drop in July.

At 2.45 am ET, France's statistical office Insee is scheduled to issue
consumer prices and household spending data. Household spending is seen
falling 0.1 percent on month, reversing a 0.5 percent rise in July.  
  
At 3.00 am ET, gross wages and producer prices from Hungary and foreign
trade from Turkey are due.

At 3.55 am ET, Germany's unemployment data is due from the Federal Labor
Agency. The jobless rate is expected to remain unchanged at 6.4 percent
in September.

At 4.30 am ET, Bank of England is set to publish minutes of the FPC
meeting.

At 5.00 am ET, Eurostat is slated to publish euro area flash consumer
price data. Prices are forecast to drop 0.2 percent on a yearly basis in
September, the same pace of fall as seen in August.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][2]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx