+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-30"
description = "UK Nationwide House Prices Rise At Fastest Pace In 4 Years"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "UK Nationwide House Prices Rise At Fastest Pace In 4 Years"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

UK house price inflation rose to a four-year high in September driven by
pent-up demand and stamp duty holiday, data from the Nationwide Building
Society showed Wednesday.

House prices grew 5 percent year-on-year in September, which was the
highest since September 2016. Inflation was forecast to rise moderately
to 4.5 percent from 3.7 percent.

Month-on-month, house price inflation slowed to 0.9 percent from 2
percent in August.

The rebound reflects a number of factors, Robert Gardner, Nationwide's
chief economist, said.

Pent-up demand is coming through, with decisions taken to move before
the [coronavirus][1] lockdown now progressing the economist observed.
The stamp duty holiday is adding to momentum by bringing purchases
forward.

Behavioural shifts may also be boosting activity as people reassess
their housing needs and preferences as a result of life in lockdown,
Gardner said.

Most forecasters expect labor market conditions to weaken significantly
in the quarters ahead as tighter restrictions dampen economic activity
and the furlough scheme winds down.

While the recently announced jobs support scheme will provide some
assistance, it is not as comprehensive as the furlough scheme it
replaces, Nationwide observed.

In the third quarter, house prices gained 1.7 percent sequentially,
taking the annual growth to 3.5 percent. Annual house price growth in
London continued to edge higher, with prices up 4.4 percent.

Data released by the Bank of England on Tuesday showed that mortgage
approvals increased to the highest level in nearly 13 years in August.
Approvals increased sharply to 84,700 from 66,300 in July.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][2]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx