+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-30"
description = "Eurozone Economy Bounces Back From Pandemic Driven Downturn"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone Economy Bounces Back From Pandemic Driven Downturn"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The euro area [economy][1] recovered in the second quarter, after two
straight quarters of contraction, driven by the lifting of lockdowns and
the implementation of vaccination programmes, the preliminary flash
estimate from Eurostat showed on Friday.

Inflation exceeded the European Central Bank's target in July on higher
energy prices, another report from the statistical office showed.

The unemployment rate in the currency bloc dropped to the lowest since
May 2020 as firms hired more staff amid economic recovery.

Gross domestic product expanded 2 percent sequentially, reversing the
0.3 percent drop posted in the preceding period. The growth rate was
bigger than the expected 1.5 percent.

On a yearly basis, GDP rebounded 13.7 percent after shrinking 1.3
percent in the first quarter. GDP was forecast to grow 13.2 percent.

As these preliminary GDP flash estimates are based incomplete data ,
they are subject to further revisions, Eurostat said.

Looking ahead, Andrew Kenningham, an economist at Capital Economics,
said there would be another strong number for Eurozone GDP in the third
quarter, perhaps a little over 2 percent sequentially, which would bring
the economy close to, but below, its pre-pandemic level.

While the Delta variant and supply chain problems are significant risks
to the outlook, the rebound is set to maintain this brisk pace in the
third quarter, Bert Colijn, an ING economist noted.

Among big-four economies, the German economy grew 1.5 percent from the
first quarter, when it was down 2.1 percent. The growth was fueled by
higher household and government consumption.

Underpinned by household spending and investment, French GDP rebounded
0.9 percent in the second quarter, after being flat in the first
quarter.

Spain GDP grew 2.8 percent sequentially after contracting 0.4 percent a
quarter ago, as the strong rebound in household spending offset the fall
in investment.

Italy's GDP growth improved to 2.7 percent in the second quarter from
0.2 percent in the first quarter.

The EU27 economy expanded 1.9 percent on quarter taking the annual
growth to 13.2 percent in the second quarter.

Flash data showed that Eurozone inflation rose to the highest in more
than two years in July.

Inflation came in at 2.2 percent in July, up from 1.9 percent in June.
The rate was above the expected 2 percent and also the ECB target.

This was the highest inflation since October 2018, when inflation was
2.3 percent.

Meanwhile, core inflation that excludes energy, food, alcohol and
tobacco, slowed more-than-expected to 0.7 percent in July from 0.9
percent in June. The expected rate was 0.8 percent.

The euro area unemployment rate dropped for a second month in a row in
June to hit the lowest since May 2020.

The jobless rate dropped to 7.7 percent from 8.0 percent in May. The
youth unemployment rate, which applies to those under 25, fell to 17.3
percent from 17.9 percent in the previous month.

The jobless rate is unlikely to rise even as governments scale back
their job support scheme, Kenningham, an economist at Capital Economics,
said.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx