+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-30"
description = "France Q2 GDP Growth Tops Expectations"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "France Q2 GDP Growth Tops Expectations"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

France's economic growth accelerated at a faster-than-expected pace in
the second quarter, underpinned by household spending and investment,
first estimates from the statistical office Insee revealed on Friday.

In July, consumer price inflation slowed to a three-month low, driven by
the downturn in manufactured goods prices and the slowdown in services
price growth, separate data from the Insee showed.

Despite the restrictions in place to curb the spread of
[coronavirus][1], gross domestic product rebounded 0.9 percent in the
second quarter, after being flat in the first quarter. Economists had
forecast a quarterly growth of 0.8 percent.

In the second quarter, GDP was 3.3 percent below the level of the fourth
quarter of 2019, as compared to 4.2 percent in the two previous
quarters, the statistical office said.

In the latest World Economic Outlook, the International Monetary Fund
forecast the French [economy][2] to grow 5.8 percent in 2021 and 4.2
percent next year.

The expenditure-side breakdown of GDP showed that gross fixed capital
formation growth accelerated to 1.1 percent in the second quarter from
0.4 percent in the preceding period.  
  
Likewise, household consumption expenditure gained 0.9 percent after
rising 0.2 percent a quarter ago.

Imports climbed 1.9 percent sequentially and exports advanced 1.5
percent. As a result, foreign trade made a slightly negative
contribution to GDP growth by -0.1 points, after -0.5 points in the
previous quarter.  
  
Lastly, the contribution of inventory changes to the growth of the GDP
was slightly positive this quarter, at 0.2 points.

Another report from the statistical office showed that household
spending grew 0.3 percent in June after a sharp growth of 10.6 percent
in May. This was also weaker than the economists' forecast of 1.4
percent.

The increase in purchases of manufactured goods by 2.7 percent was
offset by 1.6 percent declines in both food consumption and energy
expenditure.

In a separate communiqu√©, the Insee said consumer price inflation slowed
to 1.2 percent in July from 1.5 percent in the previous month. But this
was above economists' forecast of 1 percent.

Similarly, harmonized inflation eased less-than-expected to 1.6 percent
from 1.9 percent in June. The expected rate was 1.4 percent.

Manufactured product prices dropped 1.1 percent, while food prices
gained 0.8 percent. Services prices grew at a slower pace of 0.7
percent. Meanwhile, energy price inflation rose to 12.4 percent from
10.9 percent.

On a monthly basis, consumer prices edged up 0.1 percent, the same as in
June. Prices were forecast to fall 0.1 percent.

The harmonized index of consumer prices grew 0.1 percent, slower than
the 0.2 percent rise a month ago. Economists had forecast a monthly fall
of 0.1 percent.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx