+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-22"
description = "Eurozone Private Sector Activity Decline Deepens In January"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone Private Sector Activity Decline Deepens In January"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, euro area private sector activity
contracted at an accelerated pace in January as factory output growth
weakened to a seven-month low and services output dropped for the fifth
straight month, flash survey data from IHS Markit showed on Friday.

The composite output index declined to 47.5 in January from 49.1 in
December. The score was seen at 47.6.

The reading signaled the third successive contraction and the steepest
deterioration since November. Nonetheless, the economic impact of the
second wave of infections has so far been less severe than in the first
wave.

"A double-dip recession for the eurozone [economy][1] is looking
increasingly inevitable as tighter COVID19 restrictions took a further
toll on businesses in January," Chris Williamson, chief [business][2]
economist at IHS Markit, said.

The survey adds to the view that the eurozone will see a soft start to
2021, but that the economy should pick up momentum again as the vaccine
roll out gathers pace, the economist noted.

The rate of factory output growth weakened to the slowest since the
recovery began and the service sector saw output fall at the second-
fastest rate since May.

At 45.0, the services Purchasing Managers' Index dropped from 46.4 in
December but the reading was above consensus forecast of 44.5.

The factory PMI fell to 54.7 from 55.2 in the previous month. The
expected level was 54.5.

Business activity growth in Germany waned to the slowest since the
recovery began in July, but the sustained expansion contrasted with
output falling at quicker rates in France and the rest of the Eurozone
as a whole.

Germany's flash composite output index fell to 50.8 in January from 52.0
in December. However, the reading was above the economists' forecast of
50.3.

German services activity dropped for the fourth straight month and
manufacturing output remained in growth territory though it dipped to a
five-month low.

The services PMI came in at 46.8, down from 47.0 in the prior month. The
expected level was 45.3. At the same time, the manufacturing PMI dropped
to a 4-month low of 57.0 from 58.3 in December, but was above the
forecast of 57.5.

The French private sector logged a faster contraction in January
partially driven by the imposition of stricter Covid-19 curfews.

The composite output index slid to 47.0 from 49.5 in the previous month.
The expected score was 49.0.

Service providers registered a sharper decline compared to December,
while manufacturers reported a fresh downturn following a moderate
expansion last month.

The services PMI fell to 46.5 from 49.1 in December, and also below the
forecast of 48.5. Meanwhile, the manufacturing PMI rose unexpectedly to
51.5 from 51.1 a month ago. The score was seen easing to 50.5.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx