+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-09"
description = "Fed To Provide Up To $2.3 Trillion In Loans To Support Economy"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Fed To Provide Up To $2.3 Trillion In Loans To Support Economy"
type = "post"
+++

Continuing its unprecedented steps to support the [economy][1] amid the
coronavirus pandemic, the Federal Reserve announced additional actions
on Thursday.

The Fed said it will provide up to $2.3 trillion in loans to assist
households and employers of all sizes and bolster the ability of state
and local governments to deliver critical services during the
[coronavirus][2] pandemic.

"Our country's highest priority must be to address this public
[health][3] crisis, providing care for the ill and limiting the further
spread of the virus," said Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell.

He added, "The Fed's role is to provide as much relief and stability as
we can during this period of constrained economic activity, and our
actions today will help ensure that the eventual recovery is as vigorous
as possible."

The Fed said the specific actions it is taking include bolstering the
effectiveness of the Small Business Administration's Paycheck Protection
Program by supplying liquidity to participating financial institutions.

The central bank said the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility
will extend credit to eligible financial institutions that originate PPP
loans, taking the loans as collateral at face value.

Additionally, the Fed said it will ensure credit flows to small and mid-
sized businesses with the purchase of up to $600 billion in loans
through the Main Street Lending Program.

The Treasury Department, using funding from the Coronavirus Aid, Relief,
and Economic Security Act, will provide $75 billion in equity to the
facility.

The Fed said it will also increase the flow of credit to households and
businesses through capital [markets][4], by expanding the size and scope
of the Primary and Secondary Market Corporate Credit Facilities as well
as the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility.

These three programs will now support up to $850 billion in credit
backed by $85 billion in credit protection provided by the Treasury, the
Fed said.

The central bank also said it will help state and local governments
manage cash flow stresses caused by the coronavirus pandemic by
establishing a Municipal Liquidity Facility that will offer up to $500
billion in lending to states and municipalities.

The Treasury will provide $35 billion of credit protection to the Fed
for the Municipal Liquidity Facility using funds appropriated by the
CARES Act.

The Fed noted it remains committed to using its full range of tools to
support the flow of credit to households and businesses to counter the
economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic and promote a swift recovery
once the disruptions abate.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][5]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Health.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Markets.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx