+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-11"
description = "Singapore Q2 GDP Spikes 14.7% On Year"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Singapore Q2 GDP Spikes 14.7% On Year"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Singapore's gross domestic product expanded 14.7 percent on year in the
second quarter of 2021, the Ministry of Trade and Industry said in
Wednesday's final report,

That exceeded expectations for an increase of 14.2 percent following the
upwardly revised 1.5 percent gain in the previous three months
(originally 1.3 percent).

On a seasonally adjusted quarterly basis, gross domestic product
contracted 1.8 percent after rising an upwardly revised 3.3 percent in
the three months prior (originally 3.1 percent).

Upon the release of the data, the MTI upgraded its GDP forecast for 2021
to 6 to 7 percent - up from 4 to 6 percent previously.

The manufacturing sector expanded 17.7 percent on year, extending the
11.4 percent growth in the previous quarter. Growth was supported by
output expansions across all clusters, with the transport engineering
and precision engineering clusters seeing the largest increases in
output. On a quarterly basis, the sector shrank by 2.5 percent, a
pullback from the 11.5 percent growth in the preceding quarter.

The construction sector skyrocketed 106.2 percent on year, a sharp
turnaround from the 23.2 percent contraction in the previous quarter, as
both public and private sector construction works expanded. The strong
growth was due to low base effects; in absolute [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/), the value-added
of the sector remained 29 percent below its pre-pandemic level in the
second quarter of 2019. On a quarterly basis, the sector contracted 7.6
percent, reversing the 4.3 percent growth in the first quarter.

The wholesale trade sector expanded 2.9 percent on year, easing from the
3.5 percent growth in the previous quarter. Growth in the sector was led
by the machinery, equipment & supplies segment, which grew on the back
of the strong wholesale sales of electronic components and
telecommunications equipment & computers. On a quarterly basis, the
sector shrank 0.7 percent, a reversal from the 1.2 percent growth in Q1.

The retail trade sector surged 50.7 percent on year, accelerating from
the 1.6 percent growth in the previous quarter. Growth was supported by
higher motor vehicle and non-motor vehicle sales volumes, largely due to
the low base a year ago when sales were significantly lower because of
the CB measures. On a quarterly basis, the sector shrank 4.4 percent, a
reversal of the 1.1 percent growth in the first quarter.

The transportation and storage sector grew 20.9 percent on year, a
turnaround from the 15.8 percent contraction in the preceding quarter.
Within the sector, the air transport and land transport segments
expanded strongly from a low base in the second quarter of 2020 when
strict travel restrictions and CB measures were in place respectively.
On a quarterly basis, the sector contracted 2.5 percent, reversing the
6.6 percent expansion in the previous quarter.

The accommodation sector expanded 13.2 percent on year, easing from the
16.3 percent growth in the preceding quarter. Growth during the quarter
was supported by government and domestic tourism demand, even as weak
international visitor arrivals due to travel restrictions continued to
weigh on the sector. On a quarterly basis, the sector grew 2.4 percent,
a reversal from the 13.6 percent contraction in the first quarter.

The food and beverage services sector spiked 36.7 percent on year, a
turnaround from the 9.2 percent contraction in the previous quarter.
Growth in the sector was supported by an increase in sales volumes at
restaurants, cafes, food courts & other eating places and fast food
outlets from the low base caused by the CB last year. On a quarterly
basis, the sector shrank 8.0 percent, reversing the 0.2 percent growth
in the preceding quarter.

The information and communications sector expanded 9.6 percent on year,
a step up from the 6.8 percent growth in the previous quarter. Growth
was driven by the IT & information services and others, which were in
turn bolstered by robust enterprise and consumer demand for digital
solutions & services, and games & software publishing activities
respectively. On a quarterly basis, the sector contracted by 0.1
percent, moderating from the 0.8 percent contraction in the first
quarter.

Growth in the finance and insurance sector came in at 9.1 percent on
year, higher than the 5.7 percent in the previous quarter. The robust
performance of the sector was supported by the banking segment, which
grew due to the continued increase in net fees and commissions and
interest income from loans. On a quarterly basis, the sector grew 1.7
percent, easing from the 2.3 percent growth in the preceding quarter.

The real estate sector surged 25.8 percent on year, a turnaround from
the 3.1 percent contraction in the previous quarter. The expansion came
on the back of low base effects due to the workplace restrictions
imposed during the CB last year. On a quarterly basis, the sector shrank
3.4 percent, a pullback from the 6.5 percent growth in Q1.

The professional services sector grew 9.4 percent on year, a reversal
from the 4.5 percent contraction in the previous quarter. Growth was
supported by the architectural & engineering, technical testing &
analysis and other professional, scientific & technical services
segments. On a quarterly basis, the sector shrank 0.5 percent, extending
the 0.8 percent contraction in the preceding quarter.

The administrative and support services sector contracted 1.3 percent on
year, moderating from the 15.1 percent contraction in the previous
quarter. Within the sector, the rental & leasing segment shrank as
travel restrictions adversely affected the rental & leasing of air
transport equipment. On a quarterly basis, the sector shrank 2.9
percent, extending the 4.2 percent contraction in the first quarter.

The other services industries sector expanded 15.8 percent on year,
improving from the 0.5 percent growth in the first quarter. Growth was
primarily supported by the arts, [entertainment][1] & recreation and
[health][2] & social services segments, both of which saw strong
expansions on account of low base effects. On a quarterly basis, the
other services industries contracted 1.8 percent, a reversal from the
0.4 percent growth in the preceding quarter.

Taking into account the GDP performance in the first quarter of 2021,
the Singapore [economy][3] expanded 7.7 percent on year in the first
half of 2021.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][3]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][4] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][4]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Entertainment.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Health.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx