+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-01"
description = "U.S. Construction Spending Unexpectedly Tumbles 2.1% In May"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. Construction Spending Unexpectedly Tumbles 2.1% In May"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Construction spending in the U.S. unexpectedly saw a continued decrease
in the month of May, according to a report released by the Commerce
Department on Wednesday.

The Commerce Department said construction spending tumbled by 2.1
percent to an annual rate of $1.356 trillion in May after plunging by
3.5 percent to a revised rate of $1.386 trillion in April.

The continued decrease came as a surprise to economists, who had
expected construction spending to climb by 1.0 percent compared to the
2.9 percent slump originally reported for the previous month.

Construction spending continued to fall as a steep drop in spending on
private construction more than offset a jump in spending on public
construction.

The report said spending on private construction plunged by 3.3 percent
to a rate of $1.001 trillion, as spending on residential construction
plummeted by 4.0 percent to a rate of $535.9 billion and spending on
non-residential construction slumped by 2.4 percent to a rate of $465.3
billion.

Meanwhile, spending on publican construction climbed by 1.2 percent to a
rate of $355.2 billion, reflecting a 2.8 percent spike in spending on
highway construction to a rate of $106.6 billion.

Despite another monthly decrease, the Commerce Department said total
construction spending in May was up by 0.3 percent compared to the same
month a year ago.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Forex News][1]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Forex.aspx