+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-29"
description = "Eurozone Economic Confidence Reaches Pre-Pandemic Level"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone Economic Confidence Reaches Pre-Pandemic Level"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Eurozone economic confidence rose sharply in April to the pre-pandemic
level for the first time since the outbreak of Covid-19, survey results
from the European Commission showed on Thursday.

The economic confidence index climbed to 110.3 from 100.9 in March. The
score was well above economists' forecast of 102.2 and reached its
highest level since September 2018.

Although the surveys have been too optimistic about activity in the
first quarter, the [economy][1] seems to have started the second quarter
on a somewhat stronger footing than anticipated, Jessica Hinds, an
economist at Capital Economics, said.

All surveyed [business][2] sectors showed improvements in sentiment.
Confidence among consumers also strengthened in April.

The industrial confidence index advanced to a record 10.7 from 2.1 in
March. Economists had forecast the index to rise moderately to 4.0.

The improvement in industrial sentiment was driven by managers'
production expectations, their assessments of the current level of
overall order books and of the stocks of finished products.

The services sentiment indicator came in at 2.1, up from -9.6 in the
previous month. The reading was expected to rise to -8.7.

This was the second significant improvement in a row, driven by
managers' more optimistic demand expectations, as well as more positive
views on the past business situation and past demand.

The consumer confidence index climbed to -8.1 from -10.8 a month ago.
The score matched the flash estimate.

The retail trade confidence index climbed to -3.1 from -12.2 a month
ago. The rise reflected managers' improved assessments of the past and
the expected business situation and, to a lesser extent, the adequacy of
the volume of stocks.

The construction confidence index advanced to 2.9 in April, as managers
posted better appraisals of the level of order books and, particularly,
more optimistic employment expectations.

The employment expectations indicator exceeded its long-term average for
the first time since February 2020. The improvement was driven by more
optimistic employment plans in all surveyed business sectors, namely
industry, services, retail trade and construction.

Selling price expectations increased markedly in all surveyed business
sectors in April. Consumer price expectations increased only mildly.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx