+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-24"
description = "IMF Sees Deeper Recession, Slower Recovery From Covid-19"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "IMF Sees Deeper Recession, Slower Recovery From Covid-19"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The International Monetary Fund on Wednesday forecast a deeper recession
for this year and a slower and uncertain recovery for next year after
the [coronavirus][1], or Covid-19, pandemic plunged the global
[economy][2] into a crisis like no other.

The global economy is set to shrink 4.9 percent this year, which is
worse than the 3 percent contraction predicted in April, the lender said
in an update to its World Economic Outlook.

That would be the most severe recession since the Great Depression of
the 1930s.  
  
Private consumption is expected to be weaker than expected, reflecting a
combination of a large adverse aggregate demand shock from social
distancing and lockdowns as well as a rise in precautionary savings, the
report said.  
  
Investment is projected to remain subdued as firms delay capital
expenditures amid high uncertainty.  
  
The growth forecast for next year was lowered to 5.4 percent from 5.8
percent. Consumption is expected to strengthen gradually next year and
investment to firm up, but both are projected to remain subdued.

"The downgrade from April reflects worse than anticipated outcomes in
the first half of this year, an expectation of more persistent social
distancing into the second half of this year, and damage to supply
potential," IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath said in a blog on the IMF
[website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/).

"A high degree of uncertainty surrounds this forecast, with both upside
and downside risks to the outlook," she added.

The global inflation outlook is also subdued given the weaker demand and
lower commodity prices, especially oil.

A scenario presented in the IMF report is based on the assumption of a
second global outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in early 2021. Under
this, global output is expected to contract about 4.9 percent relative
to the baseline in 2021 and remain lower by 3.3 percent in 2022.

An alternative scenario to this sees a faster recovery in the second
half of this year due to greater confidence in post-lockdown measures
and 50 percent less supply-side scarring. In this, global output
improves by about 1.5 percent this year and remains 3 percent above the
baseline in 2021.

Countries across the world have gradually reopened their cities by
easing the lockdown restrictions that were imposed largely in the second
half of March and in April to slow the spread of the coronavirus
pandemic.  
  
Cities with a high incidence of cases remain under lockdown, while some
have brought back restrictions fearing a second wave of infections.  
  
The IMF lowered the growth forecast for the advanced economies group by
1.9 percentage points to -8 percent this year. The outlook for next year
was raised to 4.8 percent from 4.5 percent.  
  
The U.S. growth forecast for this year and next, was lowered to -8
percent and 4.5 percent, respectively. Eurozone growth outlook for this
year was cut to -10.2 percent, while the projection for next year was
raised to 6 percent.  
  
Projections for the emerging market and developing economies group were
also lowered, with the Chinese economy expected to grow 1 percent this
year and 8.2 percent next year, supported by [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) stimulus.  
  
The Indian economy is projected to contract 4.5 percent this year, which
is 6.4 percentage points lower than the April projection. The country is
experiencing a longer period of lockdown and a slower recovery than
anticipated in April. In 2021, India's economy is expected to grow 6
percent.  
  
For the first time, all regions in this group are projected to
experience negative growth in 2020, but there are substantial
differences across individual economies, the IMF said.  
  
In Latin America, Brazil and Mexico are projected to log more severe
contractions of 9.1 and 10.5 percent.  
  
More than 90 percent of emerging market and developing economies are
projected to register negative per capita income growth in 2020,
signalling a likely reversal of the progress made in poverty reduction,
the IMF said.  
  
Apart from pandemic-related downside risks, escalating tensions between
the United States and China on multiple fronts, frayed relationships
among the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)+
coalition of oil producers, and widespread social unrest pose additional
challenges to the global economy, the report warned.  
  
Low inflation and high debt, particularly in advanced economies, coupled
with protracted weak aggregate demand could lead to further disinflation
and debt service difficulties that, in turn, weigh further on activity,
the lender added.

"Given the tremendous uncertainty, [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)makers should remain vigilant
and policies will need to adapt as the situation evolves," Gopinath
said.  
  
She added, "All efforts should be made to resolve trade and
[technology][3] tensions, while improving the multilateral rules-based
trading system."

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Forex News][4]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Forex.aspx