+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-15"
description = "U.S Import Prices Inch Up Less Than Expected In November"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S Import Prices Inch Up Less Than Expected In November"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Import prices in the U.S. saw a modest increase in the month of
November, according to a report released by the Labor Department on
Tuesday, while the report also showed export prices climbed much more
than expected.

The Labor Department said import prices inched up by 0.1 percent in
November after edging down by 0.1 percent in October. Economists had
expected import prices to rise by 0.3 percent.

The uptick in import prices reflected a spike in prices for fuel
imports, which soared by 4.3 percent in November after falling by 0.9
percent in October. Higher prices for both natural gas and petroleum
contributed to the rebound.

Excluding fuel imports, import prices fell by 0.3 percent in November
after inching up by 0.1 percent in the previous month.

Non-fuel import prices declined for the first time since April, as lower
prices for foods, feeds, and beverages, non-fuel industrial supplies and
materials and automotive vehicles more than offset higher prices for
capital goods.

Meanwhile, the report said export prices advanced by 0.6 percent in
November after rising by 0.2 percent in October. Export prices were
expected to increase by 0.3 percent.

The bigger than expected increase in export prices came as prices for
agricultural exports continued to skyrocket, jumping by 3.7 percent in
November after surging up by 3.4 percent in October.

Prices for agricultural exports showed their biggest increase since
December of 2018, reflecting a 7.6 percent spike in price for both
soybeans and corn as well as higher prices for dairy products and eggs,
vegetables, wheat, fruit, meat, and cotton.

The report said prices for non-agricultural exports also rose by 0.3
percent in November after edging down by 0.1 percent in October.

Higher prices for non-agricultural industrial supplies and materials,
automotive vehicles, and non-agricultural foods more than offset lower
prices for consumer goods and capital goods.

Compared to the same month a year ago, import prices in November were
down by 1.0 percent, unchanged from October. The annual decrease in
export prices slowed to 1.1 percent from 1.6 percent.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][2], [unemployment rate][3], [inflation][4] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx