+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-02-03"
description = "Bank Of England Hikes Key Rate, Signals More Tightening"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Bank Of England Hikes Key Rate, Signals More Tightening"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The Bank of England raised its key rate again and signaled 'modest
tightening' in the months ahead as it struggles to bring the inflation
back to the 2 percent target.

The Monetary Policy Committee of the BoE decided to increase the key
interest by 0.25 percentage points to 0.50 percent.

While five members including Governor Andrew Bailey sought 25 basis
points hike, other four members of the panel voted for a bigger 50 basis
point increase to 0.75 percent.

The bank had raised its rate by 0.15 percentage points from a record low
at its December meeting, which was the first such move since August
2018.

The bank today decided to start unwinding its GBP 895 billion
quantitative easing programme.

The MPC unanimously decided to reduce the stock of UK government bond
purchases, financed by the issuance of central bank reserves, by ceasing
to reinvest maturing assets.

The committee also voted to reduce the stock of corporate bond purchases
by ceasing to reinvest maturing assets and by a programme of asset sales
to be completed no earlier than towards the end of 2023 that should
unwind fully the stock of corporate bond purchase.

The central bank said intends to reduce its holdings of government bonds
in a gradual and predictable manner.

If the [economy][1] develops broadly in line with the February Report
central projections, some further 'modest tightening' in monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
is likely to be appropriate in the coming months, the bank said.

"The Committee continued to judge that there were two-sided risks around
the medium-term inflation outlook, primarily from wage developments on
the upside and from energy and global tradable goods prices on the
downside," the bank said.

Paul Dales, an economist at Capital Economics, said it appears that the
BoE is stepping up its fight to defend its inflation target. This battle
will probably last throughout 2022 with interest rates rising to 1.25
percent rather than the 0.75 percent that most economists had been
expecting.

Today's hawkish decision will only cement market expectations for around
five rate hikes this year, James Smith, an ING economist said. But the
risks are biased towards a less aggressive tightening path. The
economist expects further rate rises in March and May.  
  
The BoE expects inflation to peak at around 7.25 percent in April
instead of 6 percent projected in December.

Inflation is projected to fall back to a little above the 2 percent
target in two years' time and to below the target by a greater margin in
three years.

The bank observed that the economic impact of the Omicron variant is
likely to be limited and of short duration. UK GDP is expected to
recover in February and March such that output returns to its pre-
pandemic level once again by the end of the first quarter.

The unemployment rate is forecast to rise to 5 percent and excess supply
builds to around 1 percent by the end of the forecast period.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx