+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-02"
description = "Australia GDP Expands 3.3% On Quarter In Q3"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Australia GDP Expands 3.3% On Quarter In Q3"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Australia's gross domestic product climbed a seasonally adjusted 3.3
percent on quarter in the third quarter of 2020, the Australian Bureau
of Statistics said on Wednesday.

That beat expectations for a gain of 2.6 percent following the 7.0
percent drop in the second quarter.

On a yearly basis, GDP fell 3.8 percent - but that also beat forecasts
for a decline of 4.4 percent following the 6.3 percent drop in the three
months prior.

The GDP deflator was down 0.1 percent on quarter after slipping 0.6
percent in Q2.

Domestic final demand contributed 4.3 percentage points to GDP growth.
Household final consumption expenditure contributed 4.0 percentage
points as restrictions lifted for households and businesses. Public
demand contributed a further 0.3 percentage points.

After falling a record 12.5 percent in June quarter, household spending
rebounded in September quarter, rising 7.9 percent. Spending remained
weak, down 6.5 percent through the year.

Reductions in COVID-19 case numbers led to the relaxing of social
distancing measures and other restrictions, encouraging spending on
services which rose 9.8 percent. Hotels, cafes and restaurants,
recreation and culture and transport services rebounded. Spending on
[health][1] services recovered as deferred elective surgeries and visits
to medical practitioners resumed.

Spending on goods increased 5.2 percent this quarter and is up 3.5
percent through the year.

Victoria's state final demand fell 1.0 percent, the only state to record
a fall, driven by declines in household spending and investment. More
stringent restrictions associated with the second lockdown resulted in a
9.8 percent fall through the year. Household spending declined 1.2
percent in September quarter, driven by clothing and footwear,
furnishings and recreation and culture. Spending on food rose 6.6
percent, partly offsetting the fall, as households prepared for the
second lockdown.

The household saving to income ratio declined from its record high last
quarter but remains elevated at 18.9 percent. The fall was driven by the
partial recovery in household consumption, which outpaced income growth.

Household disposable income grew 3.4 percent, reflecting increases in
both labor and non-labor income as activity in the [economy][2]
increased.

Private investment fell 0.2 percent this quarter, with increased housing
investment activity offset by weaker [business][3] investment (-3.0
percent). Ownership transfer costs increased 21.4 percent, as housing
market activity rebounded following social distancing measures in the
previous quarter. Renovations and home improvements activity drove a 5.1
percent rise in alterations and additions.

Government final consumption expenditure increased 1.4 percent, the
ninth consecutive rise, driven by increased social benefits to
households as patient visits to medical practitioners and elective
surgeries resumed this quarter, following the easing of restrictions.

Imports of goods and services rose 6.5 percent, supported by increased
demand for consumption goods as restrictions on the economy lifted.
Exports of goods and services fell 3.2 percent, reflecting continued
international travel bans and reduced demand for Australia's mining
commodities. The detraction from net exports this quarter is the largest
since September quarter 1980.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][4] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][4]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][5], [unemployment rate][6], [inflation][7] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Health.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   7. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx