+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-03-03"
description = "U.S. Jobless Claims Dip More Than Expected To 215,000"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. Jobless Claims Dip More Than Expected To 215,000"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The Labor Department released a report on Thursday showing a modest
decrease in first-time claims for U.S. unemployment benefits in the week
ended February 26th.

The report showed initial jobless claims dipped to 215,000, a decrease
of 18,000 from the previous week's revised level of 233,000.

Economists had expected jobless claims to edge down to 225,000 from the
232,000 originally reported for the previous week.

"We expect initial claims to continue to grind back toward 200k as the
impact of the Omicron variant increasingly fades," said Nancy Vanden
Houten, Lead U.S. Economist at Oxford Economics.

She added, "Layoffs are expected to be minimal in a tight labor market
where employers continue to struggle to attract workers."

The release of the report comes a day ahead of the release of the Labor
Department's more closely watched report on employment in the month of
February.

Economists currently expect employment to jump by 400,000 jobs in
February after surging by 467,000 jobs in January, while the
unemployment rate is expected to edge down to 3.9 percent from 4.0
percent.

The Labor Department said the less volatile four-week moving average of
jobless claims slipped to 230,500, a decrease of 6,000 from the previous
week's revised average of 236,500.

Meanwhile, the report showed continuing claims, a reading on the number
of people receiving ongoing unemployment assistance, inched up by 2,000
to 1.476 million in the week ended February 19th.

The four-week moving average of continuing claims still fell by 36,250
to 1,539,500, hitting the lowest level since April of 1970.

A separate report released by the Labor Department on Thursday showed
the spike in U.S. labor productivity in the fourth quarter of 2021 was
unrevised from the initial estimate.

The Labor Department said labor productivity surged by 6.6 percent in
the fourth quarter after tumbling by 3.9 percent in the third quarter.
Economists had expected the jump in productivity to be upwardly revised
to 6.7 percent.

Meanwhile, the report showed the increase in unit labor costs during the
quarter was upwardly revised to 0.9 percent from the previously reported
0.3 percent. Unit labor costs were expected to be unrevised.

The advance in unit labor costs during the fourth quarter came following
a 10.6 percent spike in the third quarter.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/retail-sales/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx