+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-04"
description = "South Korea Q4 GDP Gains 1.2% On Quarter"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "South Korea Q4 GDP Gains 1.2% On Quarter"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

South Korea's gross domestic product expanded a seasonally adjusted 1.2
percent on quarter in the fourth quarter of 2020, the Bank of Korea said
in Thursday's final reading.

That beat forecasts for an increase of 1.1 percent following the 2.1
percent gain in the previous three months.

On a yearly basis, GDP was down 1.2 percent - again exceeding
expectations for a decline of 1.4 percent following the 1.1 percent drop
in the three months prior.

Real gross national income (real GNI) increased 1.4 percent on quarter.

On the production side, manufacturing rose 3.0 percent, mainly due to
increases in chemical products and electrical equipment. Construction
expanded 2.2 percent, owing to increases in building construction and
civil engineering. Services grew 0.7 percent, as information and
communication and human [health][1] and social work increased while
restaurants and accommodations and transportation and storage decreased.

On the expenditure side, private consumption contracted 1.5 percent, as
expenditures on services (e.g. restaurants and accommodation,
transportation) and goods (e.g. food, clothing) both decreased.
Government consumption fell 0.5 percent, with decreased expenditures on
goods and health care benefits. Construction investment expanded 6.5
percent, as building construction and civil engineering increased.

Facilities investment contracted 2.0 percent due to a decrease in
transportation equipment despite an increase in machinery. Exports
increased 5.4 percent, as exports of goods such as semiconductors and
chemical products expanded. Imports were up 2.2 percent, owing to
increased imports of machinery and equipment and primary metal products.

Nominal GNI increased 1.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2020 relative
to the quarter before, with a 0.9 percent increase in nominal gross
domestic product (nominal GDP) and an increase of net factor income from
the rest of the world. Real GNI increased 1.4 percent compared to the
previous quarter due to increases in real GDP and real net factor income
from the rest of the world, despite an expansion of real trading losses.
The GDP deflator increased 2.4 percent year on year.

The gross saving ratio (gross saving/gross national disposable income)
stood at 37.2 percent, 1.5 percentage points higher than in the previous
quarter, as the final consumption expenditure (-0.6 percent) decreased
while nominal gross national disposable income (1.8 percent) increased.
The gross domestic investment ratio (gross capital formation/GNDI) was
30.8 percent, maintaining the level of the previous quarter.

For all of 2020, GDP was down 1.0 percent after gaining 2.0 percent in
2019.

On the expenditure side, while the growth of government consumption
continued and facilities investment turned positive, private consumption
and exports reversed to a decrease. On the production side, while the
decline in construction was alleviated, manufacturing and services
turned negative. Real GNI fell 0.3 percent as the [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of trade
improved, although real net factor income from the rest of the world
decreased.

Also on Thursday, Statistics Korea said that consumer prices were up 0.5
percent on quarter in February - exceeding expectations for a gain of
0.3 percent following the 0.8 percent increase in January.

On a yearly basis, inflation was up 1.1 percent - again exceeding
forecasts for a gain of 1.0 percent following the 0.6 percent increase
in the previous month.

Core CPI was up 0.1 percent on month and 0.3 percent on year after
adding 0.4 percent both on month and on year in January.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Health.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx