+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-01"
description = "Eurozone Factory PMI Signals Robust Growth In November"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone Factory PMI Signals Robust Growth In November"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The euro area manufacturing sector expanded for the fifth successive
month in November despite new lockdown measures, final data from IHS
Markit showed Tuesday.

The final factory Purchasing Managers' Index fell to 53.8 in November
from 54.8 in October.  
  
Nonetheless, the score was above the flash estimate of 53.6 and any
reading above 50 indicates expansion.

The survey adds to evidence that the region will avoid in the final
quarter of the year a similar scale of downturn recorded in the second
quarter, Chris Williamson, chief [business][1] economist at IHS Markit
said.

The survey revealed that production growth moderated from October's two-
and-a-half year peak. A similar trend was seen for new orders, where
growth eased to the weakest in the current five-month sequence.

Increased production and order requirements meant that firms continued
to increase their purchasing activity.

On the price front, input cost inflation accelerated to the sharpest in
nearly two years. Efforts to protect margins led to a second successive
monthly rise in output prices.

Business confidence improved to its highest for over two-and-a-half
years in November.

Among member countries, Germany remained the best-performing nation in
November. Solid growth was seen in Austria and Italy, in contrast to
marginal contractions recorded in both Spain and France.

Germany's manufacturing sector continued to improve in November although
there was a slight loss of momentum in the pace of expansion. The IHS
Markit/BME factory PMI dropped to 57.8 from two-and-a-half year high of
58.2. The flash reading was 57.9.

The French manufacturing sector contracted for the first time in three
months as the country faced new restrictions. The factory PMI came in at
49.6, down from 51.3 in October and the flash score of 49.1.

Italy's manufacturing sector recovery lost momentum in November. The
factory PMI dropped to 51.5 from 53.8 in the previous month. The score
was also below economists' forecast of 52.0.

Spain's manufacturing activity returned to contraction in November as
the downturn in market demand weighed heavily on the sector. The factory
PMI fell to 49.8 in November from 52.5 in the prior month.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx