+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-12"
description = "Malaysian Economy Contracts More Than Expected In Q3"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Malaysian Economy Contracts More Than Expected In Q3"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The Malaysian [economy][1] shrank more than expected in the third
quarter as the strict containment measures weighed on private
consumption and investment, data published by Bank Negara Malaysia
revealed on Friday.

Gross domestic product contracted 4.5 percent on a yearly basis in the
third quarter, in contrast to the 16.1 percent expansion logged in the
second quarter. Economists had forecast a moderate fall of 1.3 percent.

The central bank governor Datuk Nor Shamsiah said, "Progressive lifting
of containment measures and continued improvements in the labor market
will be key to support the recovery going forward".

On a quarter-on-quarter basis, the economy registered a decline of 3.6
percent, reversing a 1.9 percent fall in the second quarter.

The bank said the economy is on track to expand 3.0 percent to 4.0
percent this year. Growth will be supported by the increase in economic
activities as containment measures are progressively relaxed, amid
continued [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) support.

All economic sectors recorded negative growth in the third quarter. The
service sector contracted 4.9 percent due to the weaker consumer-related
activities. The manufacturing activity fell 0.8 percent and mining
output was down 3.6 percent.  
  
Farm output dropped 1.9 percent. At the same time, the construction
sector registered the biggest fall of 20.6 percent.

On the expenditure-side, domestic demand fell 4.1 percent as private
consumption and investment were affected by the imposition of phased
restrictions.

Private consumption decreased 4.2 percent, while public consumption grew
8.1 percent.  
Gross fixed capital formation contracted 10.8 percent driven by lower
capital spending in both private and public sectors.

On the external front, net exports contracted 37.5 percent as growth in
imports outpaced the growth in exports.

Headline inflation moderated to 2.2 percent in the third quarter from
4.1 percent a quarter ago. This was due mainly to the dissipation of the
base effect from fuel prices, and the implementation of the three-month
electricity bill discounts.  
  
Inflation is forecast to range in between 2 percent and 3 percent this
year. Underlying inflation, as measured by core inflation, is expected
to average below 1.0 percent for the year.

In 2022, headline inflation is projected to remain moderate. As economic
activity normalizes, core inflation is expected to edge upwards but
remain benign given the continued spare capacity in the economy and
slack in the labor market.

However, the outlook continues to be subject to global commodity price
developments and some risk from prolonged supply-related disruptions.

The economy shrank further in the third quarter but was already
rebounding sharply by the end of the quarter, Alex Holmes, an economist
at Capital Economics, said. With vaccinations high, virus cases down and
restrictions being eased, this rebound will continue in the fourth
quarter.

Data showed that the surplus of current account of the balance of
payments narrowed to MYR 11.6 billion, or 3.1 percent of GDP in the
third quarter. The lower surplus was on account of larger deficits in
the primary and secondary income accounts.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][2] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx