+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-23"
description = "Eurozone Private Sector Logs Strong Growth In August"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone Private Sector Logs Strong Growth In August"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Eurozone private sector logged one of the strongest growth seen over the
past two decades in August as the further reopening of the [economy][1]
underpinned expansion in the services activity, flash survey results
from IHS Markit showed on Monday.

The flash composite output index declined to 59.5 from a 15-year high of
60.2 in the previous month. The reading was forecast to fall marginally
to 59.7.

Nonetheless, a reading above 50 suggests expansion. The latest score
matched that seen in June to register the joint-second-fastest expansion
seen since 2006.

Service sector growth exceeded that of manufacturing for the first time
since the pandemic, buoyed by the further reopening of the economy.

The services Purchasing Managers' Index came in at 59.7, while the score
was expected to remain unchanged at consensus 59.8.

The manufacturing PMI fell to 61.5 from 62.8 a month ago. The reading
was forecast to drop to 62.0.

"Although the spread of the Delta variant caused widespread problems
across the region, curbing demand and causing further supply issues,
firms benefited from virus containment measures easing to the lowest
since the pandemic began," Chris Williamson, chief [business][2]
economist at IHS Markit said.

While the association between the PMI and GDP has broken down since the
pandemic began, it is still encouraging that firms continue to report
strong rates of output growth, particularly as concerns about the Delta
variant could have dented activit, Jack Allen-Reynolds, an economist at
Capital Economics, said.

Within the eurozone, Germany continued to lead the expansion, albeit
with growth softening from July's 23-year record high. Meanwhile, the
expansion moderated to a four-month low in France, cooling further from
June's recent peak.

Germany's composite output index dropped to 60.6 from 62.4 in July. The
score was forecast to fall to 62.2.

By sector, services activity grew at a sharp rate that was only just shy
of July's peak. On the other hand, manufacturing showed a more notable
loss of momentum.

The services PMI fell to 61.5 from 61.8 in July, but the score was above
economists' expectations of 61.0. At the same time, the factory PMI
declined to a six-month low of 62.7 from 65.9 a month ago. The expected
level was 65.0.  
  
France's flash composite output index slid to a four-month low of 55.9
in August from 56.6 in July. Although the headline figure was at its
lowest level since April, it was comfortably above the long-run average
of the series.

The factory PMI came in at 57.3, down from 58.0 in July. The reading
came in line with economists' expectations. The services PMI dropped
unexpectedly to 56.4 from 56.8 in the previous month. The score was
forecast to rise to 57.0.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx