+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-02"
description = "Eurozone Manufacturing Sector Strengthens In October"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone Manufacturing Sector Strengthens In October"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The euro area manufacturing sector gained further strength in October
driven by acceleration in production and new orders, final survey
results from IHS Markit showed Monday.

The manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 54.8 in October
from 53.7 in September. The flash score was 54.4. A reading above 50
indicates expansion in the sector.

Production increased for the fourth straight month, with the rate of
growth sharpest for over two-and-a-half years. Likewise, new orders
posted the biggest expansion since the start of 2018 reflecting higher
demand from both domestic and foreign [markets][1].

Nonetheless, employment levels continued to be cut, extending the
current period of contraction to a year-and-a-half.  
  
On the price front, the survey showed that input costs advanced for the
third successive month, with the rate of inflation the fastest for 20
months. Firms were able to pass on a proportion of their higher input
costs to clients.

Looking ahead to future production, [business][2] confidence remained
positive for a fifth successive month in October.

"The renewed weakness of consumer-facing businesses serves as a reminder
that, while manufacturing as a whole may be booming for now, the
sustainability of the recovery will depend on household behaviour
returning to normal and labour markets strengthening," Chris Williamson,
chief business economist at IHS Markit said.

"Given second waves of virus infections, this still looks some way off,"
the economist added.  
  
Among big-four economies, Germany was again the best-performing country,
with the respective PMI hitting its highest level for over two-
and-a-half years.

Germany's final manufacturing PMI climbed to 58.2 from 56.4 in
September. The score was above the flash 58.0. There was a steep rise in
output alongside a record growth in new orders.

Growth was only moderate in France due to a slower increase in
production. The final factory PMI rose marginally to 51.3 from 51.2 a
month ago. The flash reading was 51.0.

Amid quicker growth of both output and total new orders, Italy reported
an acceleration in growth to a 31-month high. The factory PMI improved
to 53.8 from 53.2 in September. The expected reading was 53.5.  
  
Spain's manufacturing PMI rose to a three-month high of 52.5 from 50.8 a
month ago. The score was expected to climb to consensus 51.0.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][3]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][4] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][4]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][5], [unemployment rate][6], [inflation][7] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Markets.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   7. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx