+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-03"
description = "Eurozone Private Sector Recovery Loses Momentum"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone Private Sector Recovery Loses Momentum"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The euro area private sector recovery lost momentum in August amid fears
of another wave of [coronavirus][1] infections, final data from IHS
Markit showed on Thursday.

Another report from Eurostat showed that retail sales fell unexpectedly
in July on weak non-food products turnover.

The composite output index fell to 51.9 in August from 54.9 in July.
However, the score was above the neutral 50.0 and the flash estimate of
51.6.

There was a divergence in performance between manufacturing and service
sectors. Manufacturing output grew the most since April 2018, while the
growth in services eased markedly from July.

The services Purchasing Managers' Index dropped to 50.5 in August from
54.7 a month ago. Nonetheless, this was above the flash 50.1.

Service sector companies across the Eurozone saw growth of [business][2]
activity grind almost to a halt in August, fueling worries that the
post-lockdown rebound has started to fade amid ongoing social distancing
restrictions linked to Covid-19, Chris Williamson, chief business
economist at IHS Markit, said.

Williamson said the survey highlights how [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)makers will need to
remain focused firmly on sustaining the recovery further heading into
the year.

At the composite level, new business grew at a slower pace as export
sales extended the current sequence of contraction to nearly two years.

Companies reduced their employment numbers for the sixth straight month
in August.

On the price front, the survey showed that input price inflation reached
its highest since February, while output charges continued to fall due
to competitive pressures and the challenging business environment.

Looking to the year ahead, business confidence remained in positive
territory in August. Nonetheless, sentiment weakened slightly from July.

Germany was the best performing country in August, although overall
growth was a little softer than the previous month. France also reported
gain in activity but the rate of expansion was much slower than in July.

In contrast, subdued service sector performances meant that Italy and
Spain posted outright declines in private sector activity in August.

Due to the slowdown in services activity, Germany's final composite
output index fell to 54.4 from 55.3 a month ago. The flash estimate was
53.7.

The services PMI came in at 52.5 versus a 13-month high of 55.6 in the
previous month. The flash score was 50.8.

In France, the private sector growth moderated to the lowest in the
current three-month sequence of expansion. The final composite PMI
decreased to 51.6 from 57.3 in Jul and this was slightly weaker than the
flash 51.7.

At 51.5, the final services PMI was below 57.3 in July and the flash
51.9.

Italy's composite output index fell below the neutral 50.0 mark in
August to signal a renewed reduction in private sector output. The index
came in at 49.5 compared to 52.5 in July. The score was forecast to
remain unchanged at 52.5. The services PMI dropped to 47.1 from 51.6 in
July.

Spain's private sector also returned to the contraction zone in August.
The composite PMI fell to 48.4 in August from 52.8 in July. The services
PMI came in at 47.7 versus 51.9 a month ago.

Official data showed that retail sales in the euro area dropped 1.3
percent on month in July, following a 5.3 percent rise in June. This was
the first drop in three months and confounded expectations for an
increase of 1.5 percent.

Sales of food, drinks and tobacco remained flat, while non-food product
sales decreased 2.9 percent in July. At the same time, sales of
automotive fuel in specialized stores advanced 4.3 percent.

On a yearly basis, growth in retail sales slowed to 0.4 percent from 1.3
percent in June. Economists had forecast an annual growth of 3.5
percent.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][2]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx