+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-19"
description = "UK Consumer Spending Growth Biggest In 3-1/2 Years: Visa"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "UK Consumer Spending Growth Biggest In 3-1/2 Years: Visa"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

UK consumer spending recovered in July for the first time since the
[coronavirus][1] pandemic and at the fastest pace since late 2016, as
more sectors of the [economy][2] reopened amid relaxation of the
lockdown restrictions, survey data from the digital payment solutions
provider Visa and IHS Markit showed on Wednesday.

Total expenditure grew 2.4 percent year-on-year in July, following a 6.5
percent decline in June, Visa's UK Consumer Spending Index survey
showed.

The latest growth was the first since February and the quickest since
December 2016.

Spending grew 8.5 percent on a month-on-month basis and rose by 5.5
percent from the previous quarter.

The growth was largely driven by a record 16.2 percent year-on-year
growth in eCommerce expenditure.

Meanwhile, face-to-face spend dropped 6.9 percent, the weakest rate in
the current five-month sequence of declines.

Household goods, and food and groceries segments remained the leaders in
July with 27.9 percent and 20.9 percent growth, respectively. Spending
on clothing and footwear rose 3.6 percent, the first gain since
September 2018 and the biggest since October 2016.

"While July spending represents movement towards economic recovery, we
remain cautious in our outlook," Adolfo Laurenti, European principal
economist at Visa, said.

"June unemployment rose sharply and the situation looks unlikely to have
improved in July."

Though there have been some improvements in cross-border tourism, the
ability to travel remains uncertain as the number of COVID cases rise in
parts of Europe, the economist added.

Annabel Fiddes, economics associate director at IHS Markit, expects
public-facing sectors such as hotels and restaurants to continue to face
acute challenges due to social distancing and other Covid-19 containment
measures.

At the same time, the winding down of the government's furlough scheme
is likely to push up unemployment and, combined with weaker pay trends,
could hinder any future rises in household consumption, Fiddes said.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx