+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-02-10"
description = "Eurozone GDP Growth To Gain Strength After Soft Patch"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone GDP Growth To Gain Strength After Soft Patch"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

After a moderate slowdown triggered by the exponential spread of the
Omicron variant and the persistent logistic and supply bottlenecks, the
euro area economic recovery is set to regain momentum in the second
quarter and remain strong over the forecast horizon, the European
Commission said Thursday.

According to the Winter Interim Forecast, the currency bloc entered the
2022 on a weaker note. At 4.0 percent, the projected GDP growth rate for
2022 was slower than the 4.3 percent estimated previously and 5.3
percent in 2021.

In 2023, growth is expected to moderate further to 2.7 percent in a
movement towards 'normalcy'. Nonetheless, the 2023 outlook was revised
up from 2.4 percent.

On inflation front, the EU said consumer price inflation is projected to
peak at 4.8 percent in the first quarter of 2022 and remain above 3
percent until the third quarter.

It is expected to decline markedly in the final quarter of the year and
settle at below 2 percent next year as the pressures from supply
constraints and energy prices fade.

Citing sustained rise in energy prices, the overall inflation forecast
for this year was raised to 3.5 percent from 2.2 percent and the outlook
for 2023 to 1.7 percent from 1.4 percent.

The balance of risks to the growth outlook is broadly even. The EU
cautioned that the current wave of infections could have a longer
lasting economic impact than assumed, bringing fresh disruptions to
critical supply chains.

Risks to the growth and inflation outlook are aggravated by geopolitical
tensions in Eastern Europe, the agency said.

The significant rise in inflation and energy prices, along with supply
chain and labor market bottlenecks, are holding back growth, Valdis
Dombrovskis, Executive Vice-President for an Economy that Works for
People said.  
  
"Looking ahead, however, we expect to switch back into high gear later
this year as some of these bottlenecks ease. The EU's fundamentals
remain strong and will be boosted further as countries start to put
their Recovery and Resilience Plans into full effect," added
Dombrovskis.

Germany's real GDP is forecast to expand 3.6 percent in 2022, implying a
return to its pre-crisis level in the course of the year. In 2023, GDP
is expected to continue growing by 2.6 percent as restraints on pent-up
consumer and investment demand dissipate.

Inflation is expected to accelerate to 3.7 percent this year. Strong
aggregate demand, and the tight labor market are expected to keep
inflation above 2 percent in 2023.

Spain's real GDP is expected to expand 5.6 percent in 2022 and 4.4
percent in 2023. The gap with Spain's pre-pandemic GDP level is now
projected to be closed by the fourth quarter of 2022.

Annual HICP inflation is forecast to increase from 3.0 percent in 2021
to 3.6 percent in 2022, and then to ease to 1.1 percent in 2023.

France's GDP is forecast to expand by 3.6 percent in 2022 and 2.1
percent in 2023. Overall, HICP is forecast to increase by 2.8 percent
this year and 1.7 percent in 2023.

After expanding 6.5 percent in 2021, Italy's real GDP growth is expected
to average 4.1 percent in 2022 and 2.3 percent in 2023. Inflation is set
to rise to 3.8 percent this year, before falling back to 1.6 percent
next year.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx