+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-02-10"
description = "U.S. Initial Jobless Claims Dip For Third Straight Week"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. Initial Jobless Claims Dip For Third Straight Week"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

First-time claims for U.S. unemployment benefits showed another modest
decrease in the week ended February 5th, according to a report released
by the Labor Department on Thursday.

The report said initial jobless claims fell to 223,000, a decrease of
16,000 from the previous week's revised level of 239,000.

Economists had expected jobless claims to dip to 230,000 from the
238,000 originally reported for the previous month.

Jobless claims fell for the third straight week after reaching a three-
month high in mid-January amid the surge in [coronavirus][1] cases.

"[Jobless claims} have reversed 75% of their Omicron pop in just three
weeks, reflecting the rapidly improving [health][2] backdrop and
confirming that the labor market is strong," Lydia Boussour, Lead U.S.
Economist at Oxford Economics.

She added, "This was echoed by the latest jobs report which depicted a
tight labor market that was unshaken by Omicron."  
  
The Labor Department said the less volatile four-week moving average
also edged down to 253,250, a decrease of 2,000 from the previous week's
revised average of 255,250.

Meanwhile, the report said continuing claims, a reading on the number of
people receiving ongoing unemployment assistance, were unchanged from
the previous week's revised level at 1.621 million in the week ended
January 29th.

The four-week moving average of continuing claims rose to 1,634,500, an
increase of 16,500 from the previous week's revised average of
1,618,000.

The modest increase came after the four-week moving average fell to its
lowest level since August of 1973 in the previous week.

Last Friday, the Labor Department released a separate report showing
employment in the U.S. increased by much more than expected in the month
of January.

The Labor Department said employment jumped by 467,000 jobs in January
compared to economist estimates for an increase of 150,000 jobs.

The report also showed the increase in employment in December was
upwardly revised to 510,000 jobs compared to the previously reported
199,000 jobs.

Meanwhile, the Labor Department said the unemployment rate inched up to
4.0 percent in January from 3.9 percent in December. Economists had
expected the unemployment rate to hold unchanged.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][3]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][4] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][4]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][5], [unemployment rate][6], [inflation][7] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Health.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/retail-sales/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   7. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx