+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-11"
description = "ECB's Lagarde Says Rising Market Interest Rates 'Undesirable'"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "ECB's Lagarde Says Rising Market Interest Rates 'Undesirable'"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Sustained increase in market interest rates could derail the Eurozone
[economy][1]'s recovery from the coronavirus pandemic-induced slump,
European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde said Thursday as the
bank decided to accelerate its bond purchases over the next quarter.

"Market interest rates have increased since the start of the year, which
poses a risk to wider financing conditions," Lagarde said in her
introductory statement to the post-decision press conference.  
  
"If sizeable and persistent, increases in these market interest rates,
when left unchecked, could translate into a premature tightening of
financing conditions for all sectors of the economy," she added.

This is "undesirable" as preserving favorable financing conditions still
remains necessary to reduce uncertainty and bolster confidence to
support the economic recovery and inflation outlook, Lagarde said.  
  
Earlier on Thursday, the ECB Governing Council decided to step up the
pace of its emergency bond purchases over the next quarter based on
market conditions and left its key interest rates unchanged.  
  
The size of the pandemic emergency purchase program, or PEPP, was left
unchanged at EUR 1,850 billion, but the bank said the bond purchases
under the scheme over the next quarter would be conducted at a
significantly higher pace than during the first months of this year.

Speaking to the press, Lagarde said the decision to accelerate bond
purchases were taken in total consensus in the Governing Council and
that it was convenient to decide on the pace on a quarterly basis.  
  
She also said it was undecided as to what "significantly higher pace"
meant and that a big PEPP increase cannot be expected next Monday.  
  
Preserving favorable financing conditions over pandemic period remains
essential, the ECB chief said.  
  
Policymakers will continue to monitor developments in exchange rate for
impact on the inflation outlook and the bank will see through temporary
increases in inflation, she said.

The ongoing vaccination campaigns, together with the envisaged gradual
relaxation of containment measures, underpin the expectation of a firm
rebound in economic activity in the course of 2021, Lagarde said.  
  
However, the vaccine roll-out in Europe has been slower and marred with
controversy in some instances. The fiscal stimulus is also lower
compared to the huge $1.9 trillion boost announced in the U.S.  
  
The ECB unveiled its latest staff macroeconomic projections. The euro
area growth forecast for this year was raised to 4.0 percent from 3.9
percent.  
The projection for next year was cut to 4.1 percent from 4.2 percent.
The outlook for 2023 was retained at 2.1 percent.  
  
Real GDP is likely to contract again in the first quarter of the year
due to persistence of the pandemic and the associated containment
measures, the bank said.  
  
The risks surrounding the euro area growth outlook over the medium term
have become more balanced, although downside risks, mainly from the
virus mutations, remain in the near term, Lagarde said.

The bank expects underlying price pressures to rise somewhat this year
due to supply constraints and an improvement in domestic demand, yet
remain subdued.  
  
The ECB Staff raised the inflation forecast for this year to 1.5 percent
from 1.0 percent. The outlook for next year was lifted to 1.2 percent
from 1.1 percent. The projection for 2023 was retained at 1.4 percent.  
  
The inflation forecasts for this year and next were raised largely due
to temporary factors and higher energy price inflation.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx