+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-14"
description = "UK Economy Recovers Slowly In May"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "UK Economy Recovers Slowly In May"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Despite easing of [coronavirus][1] containment measures, the UK
[economy][2] recovered at a much slower than expected pace in May after
contracting the most on record in April, data from the Office for
National Statistics showed Tuesday.

Gross domestic product grew 1.8 percent in May from April, when the
economy shrunk a record 20.3 percent. However, this was weaker than the
expected growth of 5.5 percent.

The national output was still 24.5 percent smaller than in February,
before the coronavirus pandemic hit the economy.

Jonathan Athow, Deputy National Statistician for Economic Statistics,
said, "Manufacturing and house building showed signs of recovery as some
businesses saw staff return to work."

"Despite this, the economy was still a quarter smaller in May than in
February, before the full effects of the pandemic struck," Athow added.

In the three months to May, the economy shrank 19.1 percent, following a
10.8 percent fall in April.

The 1.8 percent rise in GDP in May was a disappointing first step on the
road to recovery and suggests that hopes of a rapid rebound from the
lockdown are wide of the mark, Tom Pugh, an economist at Capital
Economics, said.

Indeed, the path to full economic recovery will probably be much longer
than most people anticipate.

Despite the reopening of construction and manufacturing, the May GDP
figures were underwhelming to say the least, James Smith, an ING
economist said.  
  
"Admittedly this is 'old [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)' now, and we should see a sharper rebound
in June and July," the economist said. But it does serve as a reminder
that economic recovery from Covid-19 is going to be very protracted.

The dominant service sector grew 0.9 percent after contracting 18.9
percent. The largest positive contributor to the increase was the
wholesale, retail and repair of motor vehicles.

Industrial production logged a notable growth of 6 percent, following a
20.2 percent fall. At the same time, manufacturing was up 8.4 percent
versus a 24.4 percent drop in the previous month.

Nonetheless, industrial output was 19.1 percent lower than the pre
Covid-19 level in February.

Driven by new housing, construction expanded 8.2 percent, in contrast to
a record 40.2 percent decrease a month ago. Meanwhile, farm output fell
at a faster pace of 6.2 percent, following April's 5.4 percent drop.

Another report from ONS showed that the visible trade deficit narrowed
to GBP 2.81 billion from GBP 4.8 billion in April. Exports of goods grew
6.6 percent, while imports fell 1.7 percent.

The surplus on trade in services was largely unchanged at GBP 7.1
billion. Consequently, the total trade surplus surged to GBP 4.3 billion
from GBP 2.3 billion in April.

In a separate communiqu√©, the Office for Budget Responsibility said the
UK is on track to record the largest decline in annual GDP for 300
years, with output falling by more than 10 percent in 2020 in all three
scenarios.

In the central scenario, the economy is projected to shrink 12.4 percent
this year and to grow 8.7 percent in 2021 and 4.5 percent in 2022.

According to the central scenario, the budget deficit is forecast to
rise to GBP 322 billion or 16 percent of GDP in 2020-21, which will be
the highest peacetime level in at least 300 years.

The OBR said the budget deficit roughly halves in 2021-22, then shrinks
more slowly thereafter.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx