+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-14"
description = "Singapore GDP Spikes 14.3% On Year In Q2"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Singapore GDP Spikes 14.3% On Year In Q2"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Singapore's gross domestic product expanded 14.3 percent on year in the
second quarter of 2021, the Ministry of Trade and Industry said in
Wednesday's advance estimate.

That beat forecasts for an increase of 14.2 percent and was up sharply
from the 1.3 percent gain in the previous three months.

On a seasonally adjusted quarterly basis, GDP contracted 2.0 percent
after expanding 3.1 percent in the three months prior.

The manufacturing sector expanded 18.5 percent on year in the second
quarter, extending the 11.3 percent growth in the previous quarter.
Growth was supported by output expansions in all clusters except for the
biomedical manufacturing cluster. The bureau said. In particular, the
electronics and precision engineering clusters continued to see healthy
expansions due to robust global demand for semiconductor and
semiconductor equipment respectively. On a quarterly basis, the
manufacturing sector contracted by 1.8 percent, a pullback from the 11.4
percent expansion in the first quarter.

The construction sector skyrocketed 98.8 percent on year in Q2, a
turnaround from the 23.1 percent contraction in the preceding quarter.
The sharp upturn was due to low base effects as the CB measures had
resulted in a stoppage of most construction activities in the second
quarter of last year. In absolute [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/), the value-added of the sector
remained 31.6 percent below its pre-pandemic (i.e., second quarter of
2019) level. On a quarterly basis, the construction sector shrank by
11.0 percent in the second quarter, a reversal from the 4.5 percent
spike in the previous quarter.

Among the services sectors, the wholesale & retail trade and
transportation & storage sectors grew by 9.3 percent in Q2, reversing
the 1.7 percent loss in the previous quarter. All sectors within this
group of sectors expanded during the quarter. Growth of the retail and
transportation & storage sectors, in particular, was supported by a low
base as strict domestic and border restrictions during the CB had led to
a sharp decline in activity in these sectors in the second quarter of
last year. On the whole, the value-added of this group of sectors (i.e.,
wholesale & retail trade and transportation & storage) remained 6.8
percent below its pre-pandemic (i.e., second quarter of 2019) level. On
a quarterly basis, the sectors contracted 0.4 percent in the second
quarter, in contrast to the 3.4 percent growth in the first quarter.

The information & communications, finance & insurance and professional
services sectors collectively expanded by 7.8 percent in the second
quarter, extending the 3.2 percent growth in the preceding quarter. All
sectors in this group recorded healthy expansions. The growth of the
professional services sector was partly due to the low base caused by
the CB last year, even as weak economic activity in the region and
sluggish domestic construction activity continued to weigh on the sector
during the quarter. On a quarterly basis, the sectors in the group grew
0.4 percent in Q2, a reversal from the 1.2 percent contraction in the
previous quarter.

The remaining group of services sectors (i.e., accommodation & food
services, real estate, administrative & support services and other
services sectors) expanded 13.4 percent in the second quarter, a
turnaround from the 3.8 percent contraction in the previous quarter.
Most sectors within the group grew on the back of a low base in the
second quarter of last year due to the CB. On the whole, the value-added
of this group of sectors remained 11.8 percent below its level in the
second quarter of 2019. In particular, the recovery of the food services
and other services sectors in the second quarter of 2021 was weighed
down by the tightening of restrictions during Phase 2 (Heightened
Alert), such as the prohibition of dining-in and reduction in the
operating capacity of attractions. On a quarterly basis, the sectors in
the group contracted by 3.0 percent in Q2, extending the 1.3 percent
contraction in the first quarter.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][2], [unemployment rate][3], [inflation][4] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx