+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-09"
description = "German Industrial Output Falls; Exports Continue To Rise"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "German Industrial Output Falls; Exports Continue To Rise"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Germany's industrial production decreased unexpectedly in February
mainly due to the weak capital goods output, figures from Destatis
revealed on Friday.

Separate data showed that exports continued to rise in February but the
pace of growth slowed amid a rebound in imports resulting in a fall in
trade surplus.

Industrial output dropped 1.6 percent month-on-month in February, while
economists had forecast an increase of 1.5 percent. Production had
decreased 2 percent in January.

Excluding energy and construction, industrial output was down by 1.8
percent from the previous month.

The unexpected fall in industrial production in February means that
German GDP will almost certainly have contracted in the first quarter,
Andrew Kenningham, an economist at Capital Economics, said.

With severe restrictions likely to remain in place until well into the
second quarter, a sustained recovery is unlikely until the second half
of the year, the economist added.

Within industry, the production of capital goods dropped 3.2 percent and
that of intermediate goods by 1.0 percent. On the other hand, consumer
goods output grew 0.2 percent.

Outside industry, energy production was down by 1.0 percent and
construction output decreased 1.3 percent.

The [economy][1] ministry said that the improvement in the ifo
[business][2] confidence as well as the positive development in incoming
orders are in favor of a positive outlook for the industrial economy in
the coming months.

However, the ministry said uncertainties remain due to the further
development of the pandemic.

Separate data from Destatis showed that exports increased 0.9 percent on
month, but slower than the 1.6 percent rise in January. This was also
slightly weaker than the economists' forecast of 1 percent.

Meanwhile, imports rebounded 3.6 percent after falling 3.5 percent in
January. Economists had forecast a moderate growth of 2.4 percent for
February.

The trade surplus fell to a seasonally adjusted about EUR 19.2 billion
from EUR 21.3 billion a month ago. The expected level was EUR 20
billion.

Year-on-year, exports slid 1.2 percent, following a 7.9 percent decrease
in January. Imports were up 0.9 percent versus a 9.2 percent fall a
month ago.

The trade surplus totaled unadjusted EUR 18.1 billion compared to EUR
20.3 billion in the same period last year.

The current account surplus declined to EUR 18.8 billion from EUR 21.6
billion in the last year.

Germany's exports to the UK dropped by 12.2 percent and imports from the
UK were down 26.9 percent.

Shipments to China rose by 25.7 in February. Most imports to Germany
came from the China. Imports surged 32.5 percent. Meanwhile, exports to
the United States fell by 0.6 percent and imports from the US declined
12.6 percent.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx