+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-30"
description = "European Economics Preview: Eurozone Flash Inflation Data Due"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "European Economics Preview: Eurozone Flash Inflation Data Due"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Flash inflation from euro area and revised quarterly national accounts
from the UK are due on Tuesday, headlining a busy day for the European
economic [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).

At 2.00 am ET, the Office for National Statistics publishes UK revised
quarterly GDP data for the first quarter. According to previous
estimate, the [economy][1] shrank 2 percent sequentially, after staying
flat in the previous three months.

In the meantime, import prices from Germany and GDP data from Denmark
are due. Import prices are expected to decrease 7.2 percent on year in
May, after falling 7.4 percent in April.

At 2.30 am ET, the Federal Statistical Office is slated to issue Swiss
retail sales for May.

At 2.45 am ET, the French statistical office Insee publishes consumer
spending for May and preliminary consumer prices figures for June.
Harmonized inflation is expected to remain unchanged at 0.4 percent.

At 3.00 am ET, GDP data from Spain and the Czech Republic are due.
Spain's economy is forecast to contract 5.2 percent sequentially in the
first quarter, as initially estimated, after expanding 0.4 percent in
the fourth quarter.

At 5.00 am ET, Eurostat is set to release flash consumer prices for
June. Economists expect euro area consumer price inflation to remain
unchanged at 0.1 percent in June.  
  
In the meantime, Italy's Istat publishes preliminary consumer price data
for June. The HICP is forecast to fall 0.3 percent on year in June.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][2]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx