+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-01"
description = "South Korea Q2 GDP Expands 0.8% On Quarter"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "South Korea Q2 GDP Expands 0.8% On Quarter"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

South Korea's gross domestic product climbed a seasonally adjusted 0.8
percent on quarter in the second quarter of 2021, the Bank of Korea said
in Thursday's final reading.

That was up from 0.7 percent in July's advance estimate and it follows
the 1.7 percent in the previous three months.

Real gross national income increased by 0.1 percent in the second
quarter compared to the previous quarter.

On the production side, manufacturing fell by 1.3 percent, mainly in
transportation equipment and fabricated metal products. Construction
declined by 1.3 percent, owing to decreases in building construction and
civil engineering. Services grew by 2.1 percent, with increases in
transportation & storage and cultural & other services.

On the expenditure side, private consumption was up by 3.6 percent, as
expenditures on semi-durable goods (clothing) and services (recreation &
culture, restaurants & accommodation services) increased. Government
consumption rose by 3.9 percent, mainly due to increased expenditures on
[health][1] care benefits.

Construction investment contracted by 2.3 percent, as building
construction and civil engineering both decreased. Facilities investment
grew by 1.1 percent, driven by an increase in transportation equipment.

Exports fell by 2.0 percent, due to decreases in motor vehicles and
LCDs. Imports were up by 2.8 percent, owing to increased imports of
basic metals and chemical products.

On an annualized basis, GDP was up 6.0 percent - again marking a slight
upward revision from 5.9 percent in the advance estimate. That's up
sharply from 1.9 percent in the first quarter.

Nominal GNI rose by 2.4 percent in the second quarter of 2021 relative
to the quarter before, increasing more than nominal GDP (1.9 percent) as
net factor income from the rest of the world increased.

Real GNI grew by 0.1 percent compared to the previous quarter,
increasing less than real GDP (0.8 percent) as the [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of trade
worsened. The GDP deflator increased by 1.6 percent year on year.

The gross saving ratio (gross saving/gross national disposable income)
stood at 35.8 percent, 1.7 percentage points lower than in the previous
quarter, as the final consumption expenditure (5.0 percent) increased
more than the nominal gross national disposable income (2.2 percent).

The gross domestic investment ratio (gross capital formation/GNDI) was
31.7 percent, 0.7 percentage points higher than in the previous quarter,
due to an increase in facilities investment.

Also on Thursday, Statistics Korea said that consumer prices in South
Korea were up 2.6 percent on year in August. That was unchanged from the
July reading, although it exceeded expectations for 2.3 percent.

On a monthly basis, consumer prices rose 0.6 percent - also beating
forecasts for 0.3 percent and up from 0.2 percent in the previous month.

Core CPI, which excludes volatile food prices, rose 0.3 percent on month
and 1.3 percent on year after gaining 0.4 percent on month and 1.2
percent on year in July.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Health.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx