+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-03"
description = "China's Manufacturing Sector Expands Most Since January 2011"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "China's Manufacturing Sector Expands Most Since January 2011"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

China's manufacturing sector expanded at the fastest pace since early
2011 as market conditions continued to recover from the [coronavirus][1]
outbreak, survey results from IHS Markit showed Monday.

The Caixin manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 52.8 in July
from 51.2 in June. A score above 50 indicates expansion.

Companies registered the fastest expansions of output and new orders
since January 2011 amid reports of firmer customer demand. New
[business][2] grew at the steepest rate since the start of 2011.

At the same time, new orders from overseas fell at the slowest rate for
six months. Increased production led to the strongest rise in purchasing
activity since January 2013.

Further, firms maintained a cautious approach to hiring, with staff
numbers falling moderately despite an increase in backlogs of work.  
  
Inflationary pressures picked up, with firms reporting steeper increases
in both input prices and output charges.

Companies were generally confident that output would be higher than
current levels in 12 months' time.

Wang Zhe, senior economist at Caixin Insight Group, said "Overall,
flare-ups of the epidemic in some regions did not hurt the improving
trend of the manufacturing [economy][3], which continued to recover as
more epidemic control measures were lifted."

"The supply and demand sides both improved, with relevant indicators
maintaining strong momentum. However, we still need to pay attention to
the weakness in both employment and overseas demand," the economist
said.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][2]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx