+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-17"
description = "RBNZ Mulls Further Delay In Bank Capital Review Implementation"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "RBNZ Mulls Further Delay In Bank Capital Review Implementation"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The Reserve Bank of New Zealand is set to consider whether to postpone
further the capital review of local banks after the stress test revealed
that banks can draw on their buffers to meet customers' need during
challenging economic times.

In December 2019, the central bank had decided to delay the
implementation of capital review, including the proposed increase in
capital requirement, until at least July 1, 2021. The RBNZ said it will
be considering over the months ahead whether further delays are
warranted.

The current events underscore the importance of banks building strong
capital buffers. Banks would be in a stronger position to withstand
worsening economic conditions if they had been implemented prior to this
downturn.

"The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic provides a stark reminder to us all
of the importance of being prepared for the unexpected, especially when
you are a systemically important bank at the core of New Zealand's
financial system," Deputy Governor Geoff Bascand said.

The more capital a bank holds, the better it can weather economic storms
and meet customer needs during tough times like now, Bascand added.

The stress test noted that capital ratio of banks would fall below the
regulatory minimums if they face 1 in 200 year event. However, all banks
would show above regulatory minimum capital under pessimistic baseline
scenario that characterize one in 50 to 75 year event.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][1]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx