+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-25"
description = "German Ifo Business Confidence At 2-Year High"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "German Ifo Business Confidence At 2-Year High"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Germany's [business][1] sentiment strengthened to a two-year high in May
as the lifting of restrictions related to the Covid-19 boosted
expectations among managers, survey data from the ifo Institute revealed
on Tuesday.

However, data released earlier in the day showed that the largest euro
area [economy][2] contracted slightly more than initially estimated in
the first quarter.

The business confidence index rose to 99.2 in May from 96.6 in the
previous month. This was the highest value since May 2019. The reading
was also above economists' forecast of 98.2.

Gross domestic product fell 1.8 percent sequentially in the first
quarter, in contrast to the 0.5 percent expansion seen in the fourth
quarter, Destatis reported. The sequential decline was revised from -1.7
percent estimated on April 30.

On an unadjusted basis, the annual decline in GDP deepened to 3.4
percent from 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter. The rate was revised
from -3.3 percent.

The [calendar](https://www.fintechee.com/web-trader/)-adjusted GDP dropped 3.1 percent on year, following a 3.3
percent decline a quarter ago. According to flash estimate, GDP was down
3 percent.

The strong May reading of the Ifo index shows that optimism about a
strong economic rebound is spreading, Carsten Brzeski, an ING economist,
said. Brzeski expects private consumption and the construction sector to
be the main drivers of growth in the second quarter.

In the first quarter, private consumption declined 5.4 percent from the
previous quarter. In contrast, government consumer spending rose
slightly by 0.2 percent.

In the first quarter of 2021, positive impetus came primarily from
construction investments, which rose by 1.1 percent. A little less was
invested in equipment - mainly machines, devices and vehicles, down 0.2
percent.

Imports of goods and services rose 3.8 percent in the first quarter but
significantly more than exports, which gained only 1.8 percent.

The ifo survey showed that companies were more satisfied with their
current business situation in May. They were also more optimistic
regarding the coming months.

The current conditions index came in at 95.7 in May versus 94.2 in the
previous month and the expected reading of 95.5.

Likewise, the expectations index advanced to 102.9 from 99.2 a month
ago. This was also better than the forecast of 101.4.

The German economy is picking up speed, ifo President Clemens Fuest,
said.

In manufacturing, business confidence rose only slightly in May as
expectations took a major knock, but remained positive. Meanwhile,
companies were again markedly more satisfied with their current
business.

In the service sector, business sentiment climbed to its highest value
since February 2020 as a result of much more optimistic expectations.
Assessments of the current situation also improved, with optimism
returning to hospitality and tourism in particular.

The business climate index jumped upward in trade. In construction, the
business climate brightened in May.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx