+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-25"
description = "Singapore Q1 GDP Grows 1.3% On Year"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Singapore Q1 GDP Grows 1.3% On Year"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Singapore's gross domestic product expanded 1.3 percent on year in the
first three months of 2021, the Ministry of Trade and Industry said on
Tuesday.

That exceeded expectations for an increase of 0.9 percent following the
2.4 percent contraction in the fourth quarter of 2020.

On a seasonally adjusted quarterly basis, GDP rose 3.1 percent after
climbing 3.8 percent in the three months prior.

Upon the release of the data, the MTI maintained its GDP growth forecast
for 2021 at 4.0 to 6.0 percent.

The performance of the Singapore [economy][1] in Q1 was stronger than
expected. The MTI said. While the recent tightening of domestic
restrictions and border controls represents a setback to segments of the
economy, the broader economy should still see a recovery this year in
tandem with the global economic rebound and further progress in the
domestic vaccination program.

The manufacturing sector expanded 10.7 percent on year, up from 10.3
percent in the previous quarter. Growth was due to output expansions in
the electronics, precision engineering and chemicals clusters, which
outweighed output declines in the transport engineering, general
manufacturing and biomedical manufacturing clusters. On quarter, the
manufacturing sector grew 10.8 percent, rebounding from the 1.4 percent
contraction in the preceding quarter.

The construction sector contracted 22.7 percent on year, improving from
the 27.4 percent contraction in the previous quarter. The performance of
the sector was weighed down by declines in both public and private
sector construction works. On quarter, the sector grew 5.0 percent,
extending the 55.6 percent expansion in the fourth quarter.

The wholesale trade sector expanded 3.5 percent on year, faster than the
1.8 percent growth in the previous quarter. Growth was supported by an
expansion in the machinery, equipment & supplies segment, which came on
the back of the strong wholesale sales of telecommunications equipment &
computers in tandem with the robust performance of Singapore's
electronics exports. On quarter, the sector's growth slowed to 1.2
percent from the 5.2 percent in the fourth quarter.

The retail trade sector grew 1.4 percent on year, a reversal from the
4.7 percent contraction in the preceding quarter. Growth was supported
by higher motor vehicular and non-motor vehicular sales volumes, partly
due to low base effects from last year when sales were dampened by the
introduction of safe distancing measures. On quarter, the sector
expanded 0.9 percent, similar to the 0.8 percent growth in the previous
quarter.

The transportation & storage sector shrank 16.5 percent on year,
extending the 27.4 percent drop in the fourth quarter. Within the
sector, the air transport segment contracted on the back of a sustained
plunge in air passengers handled amidst ongoing international and
domestic travel restrictions. Similarly, the water transport segment
shrank on account of a decline in total sea cargo handled. On quarter,
the transportation & storage sector grew 5.7 per cent, better than the
3.4 percent expansion in the previous quarter.

The accommodation sector expanded 19.0 percent on year, a turnaround
from the 19.7 percent contraction in the preceding quarter. The strong
growth seen in the sector was largely due to low base effects as
international visitor arrivals had started to plunge in the first
quarter of 2020 due to the tightening of border controls, although
government and domestic tourism demand also provided some support. On
quarter, the sector shrank 11.6 percent, reversing the 2.3 percent
growth in the previous quarter.

The food & beverage services sector contracted 9.4 percent on year,
improving from the 19.0 percent contraction in the previous quarter. All
segments within the sector saw a decline in sales volume. Food caterers
continued to be badly affected by restrictions on large-scale events and
gatherings. Other segments such as restaurants were weighed down by
capacity constraints arising from safe distancing measures, as well as
the continued slump in visitor arrivals. On quarter, the sector was
flat, a slowdown from the 6.7 percent expansion in the fourth quarter.

Growth of the information & communications sector accelerated to 6.4
percent on year from 2.6 percent in the previous quarter. The sector's
strong performance was driven by the IT & information services and other
segments, which came on the back of robust enterprise and consumer
demand for digital solutions and services, as well as games & software
publishing activities respectively. On quarter, the sector shrank 1.1
percent, a reversal from the 4.2 percent expansion in the preceding
quarter.

The finance & insurance sector grew 4.7 percent on year, extending the
4.9 percent expansion in the previous quarter. Growth was mainly
supported by the banking segment, which expanded on account of a pickup
in credit intermediation activities. At the same time, the fund
management, insurance and activities auxiliary to financial services
segments also posted healthy growth. On quarter, the sector expanded 1.4
percent, moderating from 3.8 percent growth in the fourth quarter.

The real estate sector shrank 3.9 percent on year, easing from the 10.8
percent contraction in the previous quarter. The weak performance of the
sector was largely due to a decline in commercial office and retail
space rentals. On quarter, the sector slowed to 5.6 percent from 8.8
percent in the preceding quarter.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx