+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-29"
description = "European Economics Preview: Eurozone Flash Inflation Data Due"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "European Economics Preview: Eurozone Flash Inflation Data Due"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Flash consumer prices from euro area and retail sales from Germany are
due on Friday, headlining a busy day for the European economic [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).

At 2.00 am ET, Destatis is scheduled to issue Germany's retail sales and
import price data. Economists forecast retail sales to fall 14.3 percent
on year in April, much bigger than the 2.8 percent drop reported in
March.

In the meantime, UK Nationwide house price data is due. House prices are
forecast to rise 2.8 percent annually in May after climbing 3.7 percent
in April.

At 2.45 am ET, flash consumer prices, final GDP, producer prices and
household consumption reports are due from France. Consumer price
inflation is seen unchanged at 0.3 percent in May.

At 3.00 am ET, GDP figures are due from Austria, Hungary and Turkey.
Turkey's [economy][1] is expected to grow 5.4 percent on year in the
first quarter, slower than the 6 percent expansion seen in the fourth
quarter of 2019.

Half an hour later, Statistics Sweden releases GDP, foreign trade and
household lending data. The economy is forecast to grow 2.2 percent on a
yearly basis in the first quarter.

At 4.00 am ET, Italy's Istat releases revised GDP data for the first
quarter. Also, consumer prices and GDP figures are due from Poland.

The European Central Bank is set to issue monetary aggregates for April
at 4.00 am ET.

At 5.00 am ET, Eurostat publishes euro area flash consumer price data
for May. Inflation is forecast to ease to 0.1 percent from 0.3 percent
in April.

Also, Italy's preliminary consumer prices and Greece retail sales and
producer prices reports are due at 5.00 am. Economists forecast Italy's
consumer prices to fall 0.1 percent on year in May after remaining flat
in April.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Business News][2]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx