+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-14"
description = "U.S. Industrial Production Growth Slows But Matches Estimates"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. Industrial Production Growth Slows But Matches Estimates"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Reflecting sharp increases in manufacturing and utilities output, the
Federal Reserve released a report on Friday showing a jump in U.S.
industrial production in the month of July that matched economist
estimates.

The Fed said industrial production surged up by 3.0 percent in July
after soaring by an upwardly revised 5.7 percent in June.

Economists had expected production to jump by 3.0 percent compared to
the 5.4 percent spike originally reported for the previous month.

Despite the substantial increases seen over the past two months, the Fed
noted production is still 8.4 percent below its pre-pandemic February
level.

Manufacturing output continued to improve in July, jumping by 3.4
percent in July after spiking by 7.4 percent in June. The Fed said most
major industries posted increases, though they were much smaller in
magnitude than in June.

Production of motor vehicles and parts skyrocketed by 28.3 percent,
while factory production elsewhere advanced by 1.6 percent.

The report said utilities output also surged up by 3.3 percent in July
after leaping by 2.0 percent in June, as unusually warm temperatures
increased the demand for air conditioning.

Mining production showed a more modest increase, climbing by 0.8 percent
in July, although that comes after five consecutive monthly decreases.

The Fed also said capacity utilization climbed to 70.6 percent in July
from a revised 68.5 percent in June. Economists had expected capacity
utilization to tick up to 70.3 percent.

Capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector increased to 69.2
percent, while capacity utilization in the utilities and mining sectors
rose to 75.2 percent and 73.5 percent, respectively.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Forex News][1]

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Forex.aspx