+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-26"
description = "German Ifo Business Confidence Rises Marginally In April"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "German Ifo Business Confidence Rises Marginally In April"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Germany's [business][1] confidence improved only slightly in April as
restrictions related to the coronavirus pandemic and supply bottlenecks
weigh on economic activity, survey results from the ifo Institute showed
on Monday.

The business confidence index rose less-than-expected to 96.8 in April
from 96.6 in the previous month. The score was forecast to rise to 97.8.

Companies once again raised their assessments of the current business
situation. However, they were no longer quite so optimistic about the
coming six months.

Both the third wave of infections and bottlenecks in intermediate
products are impeding Germany's economic recovery, Clemens Fues, ifo
Institute President said.  
  
April's Ifo business sentiment survey is consistent with the
[economy][2] treading water at the beginning of the second quarter as
optimism has been dented by supply bottlenecks and the Covid-19
restrictions, Andrew Kenningham, an economist at Capital Economics,
said.

The German economy will have a very poor first half of the year but it
should stage a sustained recovery from the third quarter onwards, the
economist added.

The current conditions index came in at 94.1, up from 93.1 in March but
below the expected level of 94.4.

At the same time, the expectations indicator dropped to 99.5 from
revised 100.3 a month ago. Economists had forecast the reading to rise
to 101.3.

In manufacturing, business sentiment rose to its highest value since May
2018. Companies reported greatly improved business.

However, optimism among manufacturers declined in April. Fully 45
percent of companies reported bottlenecks in intermediate products,
which was the highest value since 1991, the survey showed.

In the service sector, the business climate indicator weakened in April
following a steep rise in the previous month. Service providers were
slightly less satisfied with their current situation. Recent signs of
optimism also disappeared.

In trade, the business climate improved a little. This was due to
significantly improved assessments of the current situation, especially
among car dealerships. In contrast, there was much greater pessimism
regarding the coming months.  
  
In construction, the business climate indicator dropped in April as
companies were somewhat less satisfied with their current situation and
their expectations are still marked by notable skepticism.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][3] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx