+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-24"
description = "U.S. New Home Sales Unexpectedly Jump 1.5% In August"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "U.S. New Home Sales Unexpectedly Jump 1.5% In August"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

A report released by the Commerce Department on Friday showed an
unexpected increase in U.S. new home sales in the month of August.

The Commerce Department said new home sales jumped by 1.5 percent to an
annual rate of 740,000 in August after spiking by 6.4 percent to an
upwardly revised rate of 729,000 in July.

The continued advance surprised economists, who had expected new home
sales to slump by 1.1 percent to a rate of 700,000 from the 708,000
originally reported for the previous month.

With the unexpected increase, new home sales continued to recover after
tumbling to their lowest level in over a year in June.

New home sales in the Northeast soared by 26.1 percent to a rate of
29,000, while new home sales in the South surged up by 6.0 percent to a
rate of 445,000.

While the report said new home sales in the West also climbed by 1.4
percent to a rate of 215,000, new home sales in the Midwest plunged by
31.1 percent to a rate of 51,000.

"Despite the uptick in August, we expect new home sales to move mostly
sideways over the rest of 2021, as strong demand and low mortgage rates
are tempered by high prices and construction backlogs," said Nancy
Vanden Houten, Lead U.S. Economist at Oxford Economics.

The Commerce Department also said the median sales price of new houses
sold in August was $390,900, unchanged from July but up 20.1 percent
from $325,500 in August of 2020.

The estimate of new houses for sale at the end of August was 378,000
compared to 366,000 at the end of July and 286,000 a year ago.

The housing inventory at the end of August represents 6.1 months of
supply at the current sales rate, up from 6.0 months in July and up from
3.5 months in August of 2020.

"The inventory of homes for sale increased in August to the largest
volume since October 2008, though a record share of for-sale inventory
is of homes where construction hasn't yet started," Vanden Houten said.

She added, "The need to work through these backlogs should support new
home construction in the months ahead even if the pace of sales moves
sideways."

On Wednesday, the National Association of Realtors released a separate
report showing a pullback by U.S. existing home sales in the month of
August.

NAR said existing home sales slumped by 2.0 percent to an annual rate of
5.88 million in August after jumping by 2.2 percent to a revised rate of
6.00 million in July.

Economists had expected existing home sales to decrease by 1.7 percent
to a rate of 5.89 million from the 5.99 million originally reported for
the previous month.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][5] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx