+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-01-31"
description = "Japan Industrial Output Rises 2.7% On Year In December"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Japan Industrial Output Rises 2.7% On Year In December"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Industrial production in Japan gained 2.7 percent on year in December,
the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said on Monday.

That was shy of expectations for an increase of 3 percent and down from
5.1 percent in November.

On a seasonally adjusted monthly basis, industrial production sank 1.0
percent - again missing forecasts for a drop of 0.8 percent following
the 7.0 percent spike in the previous month.

Upon the release of the data, the METI maintained its assessment of
industrial production, saying that it is showing signs of an upward
movement.

Industries that saw improvement included motor vehicles, pulp and paper
products and petroleum and coal products. These were tempered by
declines among [business][1]-oriented machinery, production machinery
and transport equipment.

Shipments were down 0.1 percent on month and up 2.5 percent on year,
while inventories rose 0.5 percent on month and 5.5 percent on year and
the inventory ratio added 0.1 percent on month and 2.0 percent on year.

Among the shipments, gains among business-oriented machinery, production
machinery and transport equipment were offset by declines among motor
vehicles, electronic parts and electrical machinery.

Among inventories, gains among petroleum and cola products, production
machinery and chemicals were offset by declines among electrical
machinery and motor vehicles.

According to the METI's forecast of industrial production, output is
expected to rise 5.2 percent on month in January and 2.2 percent in
February.

Industries contributing to the increase in January include electronic
parts, electrical machinery and production machinery. Industries
contributing to the increase in February include transport equipment,
electrical machinery and production machinery.

Also on Monday, the METI said that the value of retail sales in Japan
was up 1.4 percent on year in December, coming in at 14.656 trillion
yen.

That missed expectations for an increase of 2.7 percent and was down
from 1.9 percent in November.

On a seasonally adjusted monthly basis, retail sales were down 1.0
percent after rising an upwardly revised 1.3 percent in November
(originally 1.2 percent).

For the fourth quarter of 2021, retail sales were up 1.4 percent on year
and 2.0 percent on quarter; for all of 2021, retail sales were up 1.9
percent.

Commercial sales were up 6.2 percent on year and down 1.0 percent on
month at 52.900 trillion yen, while wholesale sales were up 8.1 percent
on year and down 1.4 percent on month at 38.244 trillion yen.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx