+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-19"
description = "Philly Fed Index Indicates Slower Growth In November"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Philly Fed Index Indicates Slower Growth In November"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Philadelphia-area manufacturing activity has seen continued growth in
the month of November, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia revealed
in a report on Thursday, although the pace of growth slowed compared to
the previous month.

The report said the Philly Fed Index pulled back to 26.3 in November
after spiking to 32.3 in October, but a positive reading still indicates
growth in regional manufacturing activity. Economists had expected the
index to drop to 22.0.

The pullback by the headline index came as the new orders index slumped
to 37.9 in November from 42.6 in October and the shipments index plunged
to 24.9 from 46.5.

Meanwhile, the number of employees index jumped to 27.2 in November from
12.7 in October, indicating a notable acceleration in the pace of job
growth.

The report said the prices paid index also surged up to 38.9 in November
from 28.5 in October, while the prices received index spiked to 25.4
from 14.0.

Looking ahead, the Philly Fed said most future indexes moderated this
month but continue to indicate that firms expect growth over the next
six months.

The diffusion index for future general activity tumbled to 44.3 in
November after soaring to a four-month high of 62.7 in October.

"Manufacturing staged a fairly solid recovery from the depths of the
pandemic crisis, but we're concerned about future activity as the
pandemic surges and lawmakers look unlikely to deliver imminent and
major fiscal aid," said Oren Klachkin, Lead U.S. Economist at Oxford
Economics.

He added, "Weakening demand, a fading fiscal boost, ongoing supply chain
issues, and an accelerating pandemic crisis risk hobbling
manufacturing's recovery ahead."

On Monday, the New York Fed released a separate report showing New York
manufacturing activity unexpectedly expanded at a slower rate in the
month of November.

The New York Fed said its general [business][1] conditions index fell to
6.3 in November from 10.5 in October. While a positive reading still
indicates growth in regional manufacturing activity, economists had
expected the index to rise to 13.5.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Business.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx