+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-12"
description = "UK Economy Contracts Most On Record In 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "UK Economy Contracts Most On Record In 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Amid tight restrictions imposed to control the [coronavirus][1]
pandemic, the UK [economy][2] contracted at a record pace in 2020,
although the output grew at a faster-than-expected pace in the fourth
quarter, avoiding a risk of another recession.

Gross domestic product logged a decline of 9.9 percent in 2020 with all
four sub-sectors posting annual declines, the Office for National
Statistics reported Friday. The economy had expanded 1.4 percent in
2019.

In the fourth quarter, GDP grew 1.0 percent, following a revised 16.1
percent growth in the third quarter. Economists had forecast a quarterly
growth of 0.5 percent.

The rise in GDP in the fourth quarter despite the lockdown is further
evidence that the economy has built up some immunity to lockdowns,
Thomas Pugh, an economist at Capital Economics, said.

Even though the third Covid-19 lockdown means that the economy will
almost certainly take another step down in January, a technical double-
dip recession has now been avoided, the economist added.

James Smith, an ING economist said, the current rules are succeeding in
driving hospitalisations lower, and the rapid vaccine rollout raises the
chances of a decent 4-5 percent second-quarter bounce, which makes
negative interest rates look increasingly unlikely.

Despite two consecutive quarters of growth, the level of GDP in the UK
was still 6.6 percent below where it was in the fourth quarter, prior to
the pandemic, the ONS said.

In 2020, the construction sector posted the biggest fall of 12.5
percent. Services and production decreased 8.9 percent and 8.6 percent,
respectively. Farm output was down 9.4 percent.

In the fourth quarter, the slowdown was largely driven by the services
sector. Due to the higher restrictions on activity in place, services
output gained only 0.6 percent.

Production rose 1.8 percent and manufacturing output expanded 3.3
percent in the fourth quarter. Construction output grew 4.6 percent and
farm output was up 0.7 percent.

On the expenditure-side, household consumption dropped 0.2 percent as
there was lower spending in restaurants and hotels. Driven by healthcare
expenditure, government consumption advanced 6.4 percent.

Gross fixed capital formation grew 2.1 percent, reflecting a large
increase in transport equipment. Business investment increased 1.3
percent in the fourth quarter and it was 10.3 percent below where it was
at the end of 2019.

In the fourth quarter, the UK posted a trade deficit of 3.2 percent of
nominal GDP.

In December, GDP grew by 1.2 percent after falling by revised 2.3
percent in November, when there were more extensive restrictions to
activity.

The services sector acted as the main contribution to growth in
December, increasing by 1.7 percent as a number of consuming facing
industries reopened following the easing of restrictions in December.

In December, the visible trade deficit narrowed to GBP 14.3 billion from
GBP 14.79 billion in November, the ONS said in a separate communique.
Exports grew 1.5 percent, while imports fell 0.2 percent.

The overall trade deficit, including goods and services, narrowed to GBP
6.2 billion from GBP 6.6 billion a month ago.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][2]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][3] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][3]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][4], [unemployment rate][5], [inflation][6] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/industrial-production/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx