+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-08"
description = "Downward Revision Confirms Recession Fears For Japan"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Downward Revision Confirms Recession Fears For Japan"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Japan's gross domestic product was bumped down to 2.2 percent on year in
the first quarter of 2020, the Cabinet Office said in Monday's final
reading - placing the country firmly in recession.

Analysts had expected GDP to revised up to -2.1 percent following last
month's preliminary reading that had suggested a yearly drop of 3.4
percent.

On a seasonally adjusted quarterly basis, GDP was revised to -0.6
percent - missing forecasts for -0.5 percent following the preliminary
reading of 0.9 percent.

In the fourth quarter of 2019, GDP was down 1.9 percent on quarter and
an upwardly revised 7.2 percent on year (originally -7.3 percent).

Capex was up 1.9 percent on quarter following the 4.8 percent drop in
the previous three months - while the price index gained 0.9 percent on
year, down from 1.2 percent in Q4.

External demand sank 0.2 percent on quarter after gaining 0.5 percent in
the three months prior, while private consumption fell 0.8 percent on
quarter after dropping 2.9 percent in Q4.

Also on Monday:  
• The Ministry of Finance said that Japan had a current account surplus
of 262.7 billion yen in April, down 84.2 percent on year. That missed
expectations for a surplus of 480 billion yen following the 1,917.0
billion yen surplus in March.

The trade balance reflected a deficit of 966.5 billion yen following the
103.1 billion yen surplus in the previous month. Exports were down 23.0
percent on year at 4,909.0 trillion yen, while imports sank an annual
9.5 percent to 5,875.6 trillion yen.

The capital account showed a deficit of 11.4 billion yen, while the
financial account saw a shortfall of 949.0 billion yen.

• The Bank of Japan said that the value of overall bank lending in Japan
was up 4.8 percent on year in May, coming in at 562.546 trillion yen.
That far surpassed expectations for an increase of 3.2 percent following
the downwardly revised 2.9 percent gain in April (originally 3.0
percent).

Excluding trusts, bank lending jumped an annual 5.1 percent to 491.468
trillion yen - up from the 3.1 percent yearly gain in the previous
month.

Lending from trusts gained 2.7 percent on year 70 71.077 trillion yen -
up from the 1.6 percent gain a month earlier. Lending from foreign banks
advanced 12.2 percent to 3.301 trillion yen, slowing from the 25.6
percent spike in April.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][2] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx