+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2022-01-03"
description = "Singapore GDP Climbs 2.6% In Q4"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Singapore GDP Climbs 2.6% In Q4"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Singapore's gross domestic product expanded a seasonally adjusted 2.6
percent on quarter in the fourth quarter of 2021, the Ministry of Trade
and Industry said on Monday.

That beat expectations for an increase of 2.0 percent on quarter
following the 1.2 percent increase in the previous three months.

On an annualized yearly basis, GDP jumped 5.9 percent - also exceeding
forecasts for a gain of 5.4 percent and slowing from 7.1 percent in the
third quarter.

For all of 2021, GDP jumped 7.2 percent after shrinking 5.4 percent in
2020.

The manufacturing sector expanded 14.0 percent on year in the fourth
quarter, faster than the 7.9 percent growth in the third quarter. Growth
during the quarter was supported by output expansions in all clusters.
In particular, the electronics and precision engineering clusters
continued to record strong output growth, driven by sustained global
demand for semiconductors and semiconductor equipment respectively. On a
quarterly basis, the manufacturing sector expanded by 4.2 percent, an
improvement from the 0.2 percent growth in the third quarter.

The construction sector grew 2.0 percent on year in the fourth quarter,
slower than the 66.3 percent growth in the preceding quarter. In
absolute [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/), the value-added of the sector remained 26.0 percent
below its pre-COVID (i.e., fourth quarter of 2019) level, as activity at
construction worksites continued to be weighed down by labor shortages
due to border restrictions on the entry of migrant workers. On quarter,
the sector contracted by 4.4 percent in the fourth quarter, a reversal
from the 4.9 percent growth in the previous quarter.

Among the services sectors, the wholesale & retail trade and
transportation & storage sectors grew by 4.3 percent on year in the
fourth quarter, extending the 6.1 percent growth in the third quarter.
All sectors within the group expanded during the quarter. In particular,
the wholesale trade sector posted steady growth in tandem with the
robust performance of Singapore's merchandise exports.

By contrast, growth in the transportation & storage sector was partly
due to low base effects, as travel restrictions had weighed heavily on
the air transport segment in the fourth quarter of last year. On the
whole, the value-added of this group of sectors (i.e., wholesale &
retail trade and transportation & storage) in the fourth quarter
remained 2.3 percent below its pre-pandemic level. On a quarterly basis,
the sectors grew by 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter, a turnaround from
the 0.6 percent contraction in Q3.

The information & communications, finance & insurance and professional
services sectors collectively expanded 6.0 percent on year in the fourth
quarter, moderating from the 8.0 percent growth in the previous quarter.
All sectors within the group recorded expansions. In particular, the
information & communications sector continued to benefit from strong
demand for IT and digital solutions as well as robust games & software
publishing activities, while the finance & insurance sector was
bolstered in part by fund management activities. On a quarterly basis,
the sectors in the group posted growth of 3.1 percent in the fourth
quarter, faster than the 1.5 percent expansion registered in the
preceding quarter.

The remaining group of services sectors (i.e., accommodation & food
services, real estate, administrative & support services and other
services sectors) grew 3.1 percent on year in the fourth quarter,
extending the 3.8 percent growth in the previous quarter. Within the
group, all the sectors expanded except for the accommodation & food
services sector. The weak performance of the accommodation & food
services sector was primarily due to ongoing travel restrictions, as
well as tighter domestic restrictions (e.g., group size limits for
dining-in) during the quarter as compared to the same period in 2020. On
the whole, the value-added of the sectors in the group (i.e.,
accommodation & food services, real estate, administrative & support
services and other services sectors) remained 7.1 percent below its
level in the fourth quarter of 2019. On a quarterly basis, these sectors
expanded 4.9 percent in the fourth quarter, improving from the 1.5
percent growth in the preceding quarter.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][2] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx