+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-12"
description = "UK Economy Logs Strong Recovery In Q2"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "UK Economy Logs Strong Recovery In Q2"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The UK [economy][1] recovered at a stronger pace in the second quarter
as the easing of coronavirus restrictions boosted consumer spending, the
first quarterly estimates from the Office for National Statistics showed
on Thursday.

Gross domestic product grew 4.8 percent sequentially in the second
quarter, reversing a 1.6 percent fall in the first quarter. The rate
matched economists' expectations.

Nonetheless, the level of GDP was 4.4 percent below its pre-pandemic
level.  
  
Earlier, the Bank of England had projected the economy to grow around 5
percent in the second quarter and about 3 percent in the third quarter.
GDP was forecast to reach its pre-pandemic level in the fourth quarter
of 2021.

In June, GDP growth improved to 1 percent from 0.6 percent in May, ONS
reported. This was faster than the economists' forecast of 0.8 percent
and marked the fifth consecutive month of growth.

The 1 percent increase in June was an impressive result given the surge
in COVID-19 virus cases in that month, Ruth Gregory, an economist at
Capital Economics, said.

The big picture is that the recovery so far has been faster than most
imagined possible six or 12 months ago, Gregory noted. The economy may
yet surprise most forecasters again by emerging from the pandemic
without much scarring.

On the production-side, services continued to be the main contributor to
GDP's recovery in June 2021, growing 1.5 percent in June, following a
revised 0.7 percent growth in May.

Production output fell 0.7 percent in June, as planned temporary
closures for maintenance of oil field production sites once again hit
output. At the same time, manufacturing output rose 0.2 percent, after
rising 0.1 percent in May.

Construction output contracted for a third consecutive month, with
output down by 1.3 percent in June.

The expenditure-side breakdown showed that all main components except
trade contributed to the growth, with the biggest contribution from
household consumption. Household spending moved up 7.3 percent and
government expenditure grew 6.1 percent.

Gross fixed capital formation contracted 0.5 percent due to a sharp fall
in government investment. Business investment increased 2.4 percent,
though it was still 15.3 percent below its pre-pandemic levels.

Total change in inventories rose by GBP 87 million in the second
quarter.

Another report from the ONS showed that the visible trade gap widened to
GBP 11.98 billion in June from GBP 9.6 billion in May. At the same time,
the trade in services logged a surplus of GBP 9.47 billion, slightly up
from GBP 9.44 billion in the prior month.

As a result, total trade balance posted a shortfall of GBP 2.5 billion
in June versus -GBP 163 million a month ago.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][1]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][2] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][2]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][3], [unemployment rate][4], [inflation][2] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx