+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-05"
description = "Eurozone GDP Set To Recover At Slower Pace In 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurozone GDP Set To Recover At Slower Pace In 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

The euro area is expected to recover next year at a slower than
previously estimated pace as the resurgence in [coronavirus][1]
infections led to the re-introduction of containment measures, the
European Commission said Thursday.

According to autumn forecast, real gross domestic product is expected to
shrink by 7.8 percent in 2020, before rebounding by 4.2 percent in 2021
and 3.0 percent in 2022.

The projection for 2020 was revised up from 8.7 percent, while that for
next year was downgraded from 6.1 percent.

Beyond the third quarter of 2020, growth momentum is set to ease
significantly, in particular in the fourth quarter when an interruption
of the rebound is projected, the commission noted.

The forecast is based on the assumption that the stringent measures to
contain the virus will start gradually easing in 2021 and the EU and the
UK will trade on WTO Most Favoured Nation from 2021.

Although Eurozone inflation turned negative in August and September, it
is set to tick higher but to remain moderate at 1.1 percent in 2021 and
1.3 percent in 2022.

The Covid-19 pandemic has put EU labor [markets][2] under severe strain,
EU said. The unemployment rate is forecast to rise to 9.4 percent in
2021 from 8.3 percent this year. The rate is seen at 8.9 percent in
2022.

Among big-four nations, Germany is forecast to rebound in 2021 and 2022
as capacity utilization and activity recover. After contracting by an
estimated 5.6 percent this year, EU expects 3.5 percent growth next year
and 2.6 percent in 2022.

Supported by fiscal measures aimed at protecting employment in 2020, and
the recovery plan in 2021 and 2022, France's economic activity is set to
rebound slowly. The EU forecast the French [economy][3] to shrink 9.4
percent in 2020 and to expand 5.8 percent next year and 3.1 percent in
the following year.

Spain's economy is forecast to rebound strongly in the second half of
the year, but the recovery will be uneven across sectors. GDP is
projected to contract 12.4 percent this year but to expand 5.4 percent
in 2021 and 4.8 percent in 2022.

The EU observed that Italy is rebounding from a deep output trough, but
the pandemic and its negative repercussions persist and weigh on
economic activity over the forecast period. Italy's GDP is set to
decline 9.9 percent this year but to grow 4.1 percent in 2021 and 2.8
percent in 2022.

The UK GDP is projected to fall steeply by 10.3 percent in 2020, driven
by a large drop in domestic demand. The recovery in 2021 is expected to
be subdued. The EU forecast 3.3 percent growth in 2021 and 2.1 percent
in 2022.

For comments and feedback [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/): editorial@rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com

[Economic News][3]

 **What parts of the world are seeing the best (and worst) economic
performances lately? Click[here][4] to check out our [Econ Scorecard][4]
and find out! See up-to-the-moment [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s for the best and worst
performers in [GDP][5], [unemployment rate][6], [inflation][7] and much
more.**

   1. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/list/coronavirus.aspx
   2. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/Markets.aspx
   3. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/Content/EconomicNews.aspx
   4. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/PPI/highest-performance.aspx
   5. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/GDP/highest-performance.aspx
   6. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/unemployment-rate/lowest-performance.aspx
   7. www.rtt[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).com/economic-scorecard/world-rank/CPI/highest-performance.aspx